Your privacy choices guce guce Your privacy is important to us Yahoo is part of the Yahoo family of brandsThe sites and apps that we own and operate, including Yahoo and Engadget, and our digital advertising service, Yahoo Advertising.Yahoo family of brands. When you use our sites and apps, we use CookiesCookies (including similar technologies such as web storage) allow the operators of websites and apps to store and read information from your device. Learn more in our cookie policy.cookies to: provide our sites and apps to you authenticate users, apply security measures, and prevent spam and abuse, and MeasurementWe count the number of visitors to our pages, the type of device they use (iOS or Android), the browser they use, and the duration of their visit to our websites and apps. This data is collected in aggregate and is not tied to specific users.measure your use of our sites and apps Your privacy choices If you click 'Accept all', we and our partners, including 245 who are part of the IAB Transparency & Consent Framework, will also store and/or access information on a device (in other words, use cookies) and use precise geolocation data and other personal data such as Technical identifiersTechnical identifiers are system-generated strings of letters and numbers that can identify your device or you as a user. They include browser cookies, device IDs, and your IP address. They may be derived from hashed and/or encrypted email addresses or the statistical matching of other identifiers.technical identifiers and browsing and search data, for analytics, personalized advertising and content, advertising and content measurement, and audience research and services development. If you do not want us and our partners to use cookies and personal data for these additional purposes, click 'Reject all'. If you would like to customise your choices, click 'Manage privacy settings'. You can withdraw your consent or change your choices at any time by clicking on the 'Privacy & Cookie Settings' or 'Privacy Dashboard' links on our sites and apps. Find out more about how we use your personal data in our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy. Accept all Reject all Manage privacy settings Go to end