Government to spend £2bn on quantum computing | Electronics Weekly About Us Contact Us Advertise Newsletter sign-up Login / Register Menu Menu Sign In Electronics Weekly News Business Manufacturing Distribution Finance Market Research Information Technology Markets AI Automotive Electronics Embedded Systems Industrial Electronics Internet of Things Medical Electronics Military/Aerospace Electronics Power Design Communications EDA and IP Legislation & Skills Research STEM Education Testing University Electronics Products Analogue / Linear / Mixed Signal ICs FPGA / PLD LED Lighting Microprocessors Power Supplies Raspberry Pi Development RF & Microwave Sensors & Opto Single Board Computers Test & Measurement Blogs Electro Ramblings Engineer In Wonderland Gadget Master Mannerisms Viewpoints Led Luminaries Media EW Podcast – CHIIPS EW TV EW Digital Editions Events Calendar Electronica Electronics Weekly Elektra Awards Electronics Weekly BrightSparks Awards Electronics Weekly Women Leaders in Electronics Awards Embedded World Energy Efficiency for the AI Age Resources EW Compare – Comparison Search Engine Component search engine Whitepapers and competitions Home » News » Business Add to Bookmarks By David Manners Posted on 17th March 2026 | Modified on 19th March 2026 Government to spend £2bn on quantum computing The government announced today that it is to spend £2bn on quantum computing research over the next four years. The Department of Science, Innovation and Technology (DSIT) says it is encouraging companies to initially build prototype quantum computers with a view to having commercial versions available in the next decade. DSIT is targeting applications in financial services, quantum navigation, energy and pharmaceuticals. The next step in the UK’s plans for quantum technology will help deliver personalised treatments,  potential cures for diseases, safeguard national security and deliver high-paid jobs – revolutionising the health and wealth of hardworking people across the UK and delivering on the government’s Modern Industrial Strategy. The UK will  become the first country to benefit from revolutionary quantum computers, sensors and networks, and support the emergence of the next generation of leading British companies that will help shape the curve of progress. “As of today, the UK is the first country in the world to commit to an advanced procurement to build large-scale quantum computers on our shores by the early 2030s. Joining R&D,  manufacturing, software, hardware and procurement into a single programme, we will be world leaders in developing and deploying large-scale quantum computers,” says DSIT. “These systems will be built in Britain – creating British jobs, new opportunities for British businesses and opening new routes of investment to flow into  our economy from all over the world.” Technology secretary Liz Kendall said: “I am determined this country grasps the benefits  quantum computing will bring. It is only by keeping pace with technological progress that we  can deliver the high-paid jobs, cutting-edge public services and innovations which change lives. “Today’s announcements are an investment in our future – unlocking better health, wealth and more opportunities for communities across the country. “This government is ushering in a quantum leap – making the choice today to back UK scientists, companies, and innovators so we can deliver a future that works for all.” ProQure:Scaling UK Quantum Computing ”will launch next week, where companies will be invited to table proposals to partner with us to deliver state-of-the-art prototypes for evaluation. “Prototypes will then be assessed, with the most promising companies invited to deliver larger scale machines for use by scientists, researchers, the public sector and businesses, as part of our national computing infrastructure. “This will also accelerate growth of the UK’s already thriving quantum industry-supporting homegrown firms as they scale-up and grow while building an environment which encourages private backers from around the world to pour money into the sector, capturing everything from hardware, processors and manufacturing through to sustained investment in UK supply chains.” Estimates show quantum could boost productivity by 7% in the next two decades, creating more than 100,000 jobs in the process. That would mean £212bn-worth of economic impact – the equivalent of adding the combined annual GDP of Wales and Northern Ireland. The technology is already being put to work across the country, with Q-BIOMED researchers at the University College London exploring wearable brain scanners to support people suffering from epilepsy. Laying the foundations that will give the UK a rich pool of quantum talent, the government’s flagship TechFirst programme will launch new partnerships with companies in the sector – offering up to 100 fully funded internships. This will give people the tools they need to embark on future, high-paying careers in the field. The UK launched  a National Quantum Technologies programme in 2014, which has already been backed by more than £1bn in public funding to support skills, research and infrastructure. The UK’s credentials as a global magnet for private investment are also thriving. Coinciding with today’s announcements, several global companies are announcing technical breakthroughs delivered in the UK, as well as new and recent investment commitments including: Infleqtion has delivered a 100-qubit quantum computer at the National Quantum Computing Centre, marking a significant step forward in developing large-scale systems for operational capability Vescent has selected the UK’s National Physical Laboratory for its next office outside the US, backing worldleading talent and expertise across UK institutions IonQ has formed a major strategic research partnership with Cambridge University. This will create the IonQ Quantum Innovation Centre, hosting IonQ’s most advanced 256-qubit computer, accelerating research and discovery in the UK. The raft of measures set out today lays the foundations for new investment, jobs, and improved public services across the country, says the DSIT. See all our Quantum content. Recommended Articles Quantum computer for Cambridge University EU quantum effort IonQ to buy Skywater £100m fund for quantum hooks up with Harwell Cluster Quantum 2026-03-17 David Manners David Manners David Manners has more than forty-years experience writing about the electronics industry, its major trends and leading players. As well as writing business, components and research news, he is the author of the site's most popular blog, Mannerisms. This features series of posts such as Fables, Markets, Shenanigans, and Memory Lanes, across a wide range of topics. tweet Email Tagged with: Quantum Get Electronics Weekly every day Subscribe Previous: Memory shortage to last 4-5 years says SK boss Next: Nvidia announces seven Vera Rubin chips in volume production Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * Email * Δ DIGITAL EDITIONS Click to list the Digital Editions of the Electronics Weekly magazine. Then select the month to view. List all the magazines » Electronics Weekly @ 65! Read our special features celebrating 65 years of Electronics Weekly and looking ahead to the future of the industry. Read the Electronics Weekly @ 65 features » Read the first ever Electronics Weekly online: 7th September 1960. We've scanned the very first edition so you can enjoy it. Read the very first edition » Tune into EW’s CHIIPS Podcast The excellent Electronics Weekly podcast, CHIIPS, is brought to you by our editor Caroline Hayes. Hear interesting insights from a range of industry figures. Catch all the episodes » Most Popular Get the Gadget Master newsletter! Get Mannerisms, Gadget Master, the Daily and the Weekly, in newsletter form Embedded World 2026: Get the full Electronics Weekly Guide Raspberry Pi Flash Drive writes as fast as USB 3.0 will go Swarming robots bid to translate music into light and motion Work Break Sudoku Latest Comments zeitghost on 5G has widened the digital divide: ‘We are doomed.... ‘ David Manners on Fable: The German Who Loved England And Became A Lord: ‘Yes indeed Jamo - Hugo it was - the 1st Baron Hirst... ‘ Tim van Iersel on Billionaires: ‘justice for the bottom billionaires!... ‘ jamo spingal on Fable: The German Who Loved England And Became A Lord: ‘Hugo Hirst (Hirsch) of GEC ? Gen AI is good at this stuff I... ‘ Don’t miss out on EW Newsletters Get our news, blogs and comments straight to your inbox! Sign up for the Electronics Weekly newsletters: Mannerisms, Gadget Master and the Daily and Weekly roundups. Find out more » Digital Edition Register and Sign up for e-Newsletter Space Electronics Keep up with developments relating to space technology - satellite technology, PNT, thermal imaging, SatIoT, spaceports and more View our busy aerospace section » Image: ESA Electronics Weekly @ 65! Read our special supplement celebrating 65 years of Electronics Weekly and looking ahead to the future of the industry. Read the Electronics Weekly @ 65 feature » Read the first ever Electronics Weekly online: 7th September 1960. We've scanned the very first edition so you can enjoy it. Read the very first edition » IoT – Internet of Things Keep up with developments relating to the Internet of Things (IoT) - Industrial IoT, sensors, Edge AI, battery technology, SatIoT and more View our popular Internet of Things section » Image: ESA Power Keep up with developments relating to Power electronics - MOSFETs, batteries, PSUs and more, for example View our busy Power section » Image: Infineon News Embedded Systems LED Lighting Power Communications Internet of Things Automotive Electronics Finance Blogs Electro Ramblings Gadget Master Engineer In Wonderland Mannerisms EW Portfolio About Us Elektra Awards Women Leaders In Electronics Podcast – CHIIPS Site Map About Us Established in 1960, Electronics Weekly is the market-leading, longest-established electronics magazine, read in print and online by key decision makers throughout the industry. Electronics Weekly reaches an international audience of 200,000 people each month across print, online, email, social media and events, and readers rate its editorial as "informative, interesting and relevant"*. Our prestigious events portfolio includes Electronics Weekly’s Elektra Awards, Electronics Weekly’s BrightSparks, and the recently added Electronics Weekly’s Women Leaders in Electronics Awards and more. *2022 Fusion Insight & Strategy survey. Copyright ©2026 Electronics Weekly |News|Products|Blogs - Owned by Emap, Southern House, CR0 1XG (020 39532600) Terms and Conditions Privacy policy x