Large-scale portfolio optimization on a trapped-ion quantum computer
Alejandro Gomez Cadavid1,2, Ananth Kaushik7, Pranav Chandarana1,2, Miguel Angel
Lopez-Ruiz7, Gaurav Dev1,3, Willie Aboumrad7, Qi Zhang1, Claudio Girotto7, Sebasti ´an V .
Romero1,4,5, Martin Roetteler7, Enrique Solano1,∗Marco Pistoia7,8, and Narendra N. Hegade1,6†
1Kipu Quantum GmbH, Greifswalderstrasse 212, 10405 Berlin, Germany
2Department of Physical Chemistry, University of the Basque Country EHU, Apartado 644, 48080 Bilbao, Spain
3TUM School of Management, Technische Universit¨ at M¨ unchen, Bildungscampus 9, 74076 Heilbronn, Germany
4Instituto de Ciencia de Materiales de Madrid (CSIC), Cantoblanco, E-28049 Madrid, Spain
5Departamento de F´ ısica Te´ orica de la Materia Condensada, Universidad Aut´ onoma de Madrid, E-28049 Madrid, Spain
6IDAL, Electronic Engineering Department, ETSE-UV , University of Valencia, Avgda. Universitat s/n, 46100 Burjassot, Valencia, Spain
7IonQ Inc., 4505 Campus Dr, College Park, MD 20740, USA
8IonQ Italia, Rome, Italy
(Dated: March 2, 2026)
We present an end-to-end pipeline for large-scale portfolio selection with cardinality constraints and exper-
imentally demonstrate it on trapped-ion quantum processors using hardware-aware decomposition. Building
on RMT-based correlation-matrix denoising and community detection, we identify correlated asset groups and
introduce a correlation-guided greedy splitting scheme that caps each cluster by the executable qubit budget.
Each cluster defines a hardware-embeddable QUBO subproblem that we solve using bias-field digitized counter-
diabatic quantum optimization (BF-DCQO), a non-variational method that avoids classical parameter-training
loops. We recombine low-energy candidates into global portfolios and enforce feasibility with a two-stage
post-processing routine: fast repair followed by a cardinality-preserving swap local search. We benchmark the
workflow on a 250-asset universe taken from the S&P 500 and execute subproblems on a 64-qubit Barium devel-
opment system similar to the forthcoming IonQ Tempo line. We observe that larger executable subproblem sizes
reduce decomposition error and systematically improve final objective values and risk–return trade-offs relative
to randomized baselines under identical post-processing. Overall, the results establish a hardware-tested route
for scaling financial optimization problems, defined by a trade space in which executable problem size and
circuit cost are balanced against the resulting solution quality.
I. INTRODUCTION
Optimization problems arising in financial decision-making
often involve discrete choices, combinatorial constraints, and
noisy input data [1, 2]. Among them, portfolio selec-
tion with cardinality constraints is a prototypical challeng-
ing problem [3–6], in which an investor must choose a fixed
number of assets while balancing expected return against
risk, building upon the classical mean-variance framework of
Markowitz [7]. As problem sizes increase, classical meth-
ods quickly become computationally impractical, and heuris-
tic approaches tend to dominate in realistic settings.
Quantum computing has emerged as a promising comple-
mentary technology for combinatorial optimization. Many
financial formulations can be expressed as quadratic uncon-
strained binary optimization (QUBO) problems and mapped
to Ising models [6, 8], enabling the use of quantum algo-
rithms such as quantum annealing [9, 10], the quantum ap-
proximate optimization algorithm (QAOA) [11], and digitized
counterdiabatic approaches such as digitized counterdiabatic
quantum optimization (DCQO) [12, 13] and bias-field DCQO
(BF-DCQO) [14, 15]. However, current quantum processors
remain constrained by limited qubit counts, restricted connec-
tivity, and finite coherence times, which collectively bound the
∗enr.solano@gmail.com
†narendrahegade5@gmail.comsize and complexity of executable problem instances. These
practical limitations motivate the development of frameworks
that explicitly incorporate hardware constraints into the de-
sign of quantum optimization algorithms, enabling more scal-
able and reliable implementations on contemporary quantum
platforms [16–18]. In this regard, several efforts have sought
to tackle large-scale industrial problems on current quantum
computers, either by decomposing problems into subproblems
or by encoding them in a qubit-efficient manner [19–21].
Existing demonstrations of quantum optimization for fi-
nancial applications are constrained by device size and by
the practical cost of executing strongly coupled objective
functions under near-term noise and runtime limitations.
Cardinality-constrained portfolio selection is a representative
example: it is NP-hard, induces many pairwise couplings, and
requires enforcing an exactK-asset constraint, all of which
complicate direct hardware execution at realistic scales. Re-
cent work has shown that correlation-structure-aware decom-
position can mitigate these challenges by denoising empirical
correlation matrices and partitioning the asset universe into
communities that can be solved separately [20].
We build on this direction with an end-to-end workflow
that explicitly ties the decomposition to the executable qubit
budget and instantiates the solve stage with a non-variational
quantum optimizer. Starting from a QUBO/Ising formu-
lation of fixed-cardinality portfolio selection, we enforce a
strict hardware size cap via a correlation-guided splitting rule
that converts oversized communities into clusters that fit a
target qubit budget. We solve the resulting Ising subprob-arXiv:2602.23976v1  [quant-ph]  27 Feb 2026

2
lems on trapped-ion quantum hardware using bias-field digi-
tized counterdiabatic quantum optimization (BF-DCQO) [12,
14, 15], and construct global portfolios by recombining low-
energy subproblem candidates followed by a cardinality-
enforcing refinement step.
We benchmark the approach on a 250-asset universe and
experimentally execute subproblems with 36 qubits and up to
60 qubits on a 64-qubit trapped-ion system. We observe that
larger executable subproblem sizes reduce decomposition er-
ror and improve final objective values and risk-return trade-
offs relative to classical cluster-based and randomized base-
lines under identical post-processing. This establishes a di-
rect link between available qubit budget, decomposition gran-
ularity, and end-to-end solution quality, supporting hardware-
aware quantum optimization workflows for applied financial
decision-making on near-term devices.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In
Sec. II we present the fixed-cardinality portfolio selection
problem and the QUBO/Ising mapping used throughout. In
Sec. III we detail the hardware-aware pipeline, including
RMT-based denoising of correlations, community detection
with an explicit qubit-budget cap, BF-DCQO execution on
the resulting subproblems, and a cardinality-preserving local-
search refinement used at both the cluster and global levels. In
Sec. IV we evaluate the pipeline on a 250-asset universe and
report trapped-ion hardware executions on IonQ systems with
36-qubit and 64-qubit configurations (executing subproblems
up to 60 qubits), highlighting how decomposition granular-
ity and reconstructed portfolio quality change with available
qubits. We conclude with implications for near-term hardware
execution of dense Ising/QUBO objectives and extensions en-
abled by larger qubit counts and improved fidelities.
II. PORTFOLIO OPTIMIZATION PROBLEM
Portfolio selection aims to identify an optimal subset of as-
sets that balances expected return and risk, subject to practi-
cal constraints such as cardinality, diversification, and regula-
tory requirements. In this work, we consider a combinatorial
portfolio optimization problem in which decisions are binary:
each assetiis either included (x i=1) or excluded (x i=0)
from the portfolio. This discrete structure allows a direct map-
ping to quadratic unconstrained binary optimization (QUBO)
objectives and Ising Hamiltonians compatible with quantum
optimization algorithms such as BF-DCQO.
Problem definition:Letµ idenote the expected return of
asseti, and letC∈Rn×nbe the covariance matrix. The goal
is to select a subset of exactlyKassets (a fixed-cardinality
constraint) that optimizes a risk–return trade-off. The binary
vectorx=(x 1,...,x n) must satisfyPn
i=1xi=K. The classical
objective
min
x∈{0,1}nγ−1
2µTx+γ+1
2xTCx
s.t.nX
i=1xi=K,(1)combines a risk termP
i,jCi jxixjwith a linear return termP
iµixi, using a weighting parameterγ∈[−1,1] to interpo-
late between pure risk-minimization (γ=1) and pure return-
maximization (γ=−1). In this paper, we setγ=0 to balance
the risk and return terms in Eq. (1).
QUBO formulation:To encode the cardinality constraint
into a QUBO, we augment the objective with a quadratic
penalty of the form (Pn
i=1xi−K)2, multiplied by a sufficiently
large coefficient to enforce feasibility. After expanding and
collecting terms, the full cost function can be written in the
standard QUBO form
f(x)=x⊤Qx+q⊤x+const,(2)
whereQcontains contributions from the covariance term and
the quadratic part of the penalty, andqcollects the linear re-
turn terms and the linear part of the penalty. This representa-
tion is directly compatible with classical as well as with quan-
tum heuristics. See Appendix A for the explicit construction
ofQandqfrom Eq. (1).
Ising representation:For quantum hardware that natively
implements Pauli interactions, it is convenient to convert bi-
nary variables to Ising spins viax i=(1−z i)/2, where
zi∈{−1,+1}. Substitution yields an Ising Hamiltonian of the
generic form
Hf=X
ihizi+X
i<jJi jzizj+const.,(3)
with fieldsh iand couplingsJ i jobtained through a linear trans-
formation ofQandq, see Appendix A. This structure aligns
directly with the BF-DCQO optimizer described in Sec. III C,
whereH fis the target Hamiltonian.
III. METHODS
A. Hardware-aware decomposition pipeline
To ensure that each QUBO subproblem fits on a target
quantum processor with a maximum qubit capacityQ max, we
partition the asset universe into clusters whose sizes do not ex-
ceed this limit. This is achieved through Alg. 1. The method
proceeds in two stages. First, we apply a denoising decom-
position of the correlation matrixCbased on Refs. [20, 22].
where the correlation matrix is partitioned into three spectral
components:
C=C noise+C⋆+C global,(4)
whereC noisecorresponds to eigenmodes consistent with noise,
Cglobal is the dominant market mode, andC ⋆contains the
structured, informative eigenmodes. Clustering is performed
only onC ⋆, which improves robustness by suppressing noise-
driven relationships.
A community detection method is applied toC ⋆, produc-
ing an initial hard partition of assets. These communities re-
flect meaningful correlation structure, but their sizes may ex-
ceed the hardware-boundQ max. Therefore, a second stage

3
0.1780.180Annual Risk0.100.11Annual Return
10111⋯0110⋯1010⋯11⋯⋯11⋯01010⋯10110⋯110⋯⋯11⋯010010⋯110111⋯1010⋯⋯(a)(b)(c)(d)(e)
FIG. 1. Schematic of the end-to-end pipeline: (a) original problem; (b) community detection and size-bounded splitting produce clusters with
|Cm|≤Q max; (c) each cluster is mapped to an Ising instance and solved via BF-DCQO (or classically for small clusters); (d–e) low-energy
cluster candidates are recombined into global portfolios and refined using a cardinality-preserving local search.
Algorithm 1:Hardware-Aware Clustering
(GetClusters)
Input:Correlation matrixC; hardware qubit limitQ max
Output:Clusters{C 1,...,C M}with|C m|≤Q max
1RMT denoising:DecomposeCintoC noise,C⋆,Cglobal using
Marchenko-Pastur spectral separation
2Initial clustering [22]:Apply a community-detection
method (e.g. Louvain) toC ⋆to obtain initial communities
{C(0)
u}
3foreachcommunityC(0)
udo
4if|C(0)
u|≤Q maxthen
5KeepC(0)
uunchanged and append it to the output set
6else
7Initialize:R←C(0)
u
8whileR,∅do
9if|R|≤Q maxthen
10AppendRas a final cluster; break
11- Compute the restricted matrixC R=C[R,R]
12- Compute degreesd i=P
j|(CR)i j|−1∀i∈R
13- Select seedi⋆=arg max idi
14- Compute similaritiess j=|(C R)i⋆j|
15- LetJbe the indices of theQ maxlargests j
16- Form a new clusterC new={R[j] :j∈J}
17- AppendC newto the output set
18- UpdateR←R\C new
19returnFinal set of clusters{C 1,...,C M}
enforces the maximum cluster size without discarding any
assets. Oversized communities are recursively split using
a correlation-aware greedy procedure: within each commu-
nity, we select a high-degree node (in the absolute-correlation
graph) and group it with its most strongly correlated neigh-
bours up to sizeQ max. The selected nodes form a final cluster,
are removed from the pool, and the process continues until all
remaining nodes fit within the size constraint.
The resulting set of clustersCforms a complete partition of
the asset universe,
MG
m=1Cm={1,...,n},|C m|≤Q max∀m,(5)
guaranteeing that each cluster defines a QUBO subproblem
embeddable on the target quantum hardware.B. Trapped-ion hardware
The experiments reported here were carried out on mod-
ern trapped-ion quantum processors. This hardware platform
is particularly well suited for implementing dense Ising or
QUBO Hamiltonians due to its long intrinsic qubit coherence
times and its ability to realize highly reconfigurable, near–all-
to-all two-qubit interactions mediated by collective motional
modes. These characteristics allow dense coupling graphs to
be implemented directly, substantially reducing the need for
SWAP operations that typically inflate circuit depth on devices
with limited connectivity.
Our primary results were obtained using IonQ’s Forte and
Forte Enterprise quantum processing units (QPUs) [23], each
of which utilize 36 qubits encoded in the hyperfine ground
states of trapped171Yb+ions, while selected experiments were
performed on a larger, IonQ-designed Barium development
system similar to the forthcoming IonQ Tempo line. This sys-
tem utilizes up to 64 Barium qubits in a long-chain, steered-
beam architecture to extend the capabilities of Forte-class pro-
cessors. Across all devices, ions are produced via laser abla-
tion and selective ionization and are confined within compact,
integrated vacuum packages utilizing surface linear Paul traps.
Universal control is implemented through two-photon Raman
transitions driven by 355 nm laser pulses for the Ytterbium
systems and 532 nm laser pulses for the Barium system, en-
abling a gate set composed of arbitrary single-qubit rotations
and entanglingZZgates.
These QPUs leverage advanced optical control systems
based on acousto-optic deflectors (AODs) to enable indepen-
dent beam steering to individual ions, significantly reducing
beam alignment errors [24, 25], and are supported by auto-
mated calibration software to ensure scalable operation. Re-
garding performance, the IonQ Forte and Forte Enterprise
systems demonstrated median direct randomized benchmark-
ing fidelities for two-qubit gates of 99.3% and 99.5%, re-
spectively, with typical gate durations of 950µs. Single-
qubit gate fidelities were approximately 99.98% with opera-
tion times of 130µs. Data processing protocols across the sys-
tems include sample debiasing, achieved by grouping the total
number of shots into batches of 25 and averaging over these
groups [26]. Furthermore, the 64-Qubit Barium development
system incorporates leakage checks to discard samples where
quantum states have interacted with the environment. Col-

4
lectively, these architectures support consistent high gate fi-
delities, making them well-suited for quantum optimization
experiments featuring dense interaction structures.
C. Quantum optimizer
Bias-field digitized counterdiabatic quantum optimization
(BF-DCQO) is a recent algorithm proposed to tackle opti-
mization problems encoded as Ising problems [14, 15, 27].
BF-DCQO builds up on an adiabatic path from a biased ini-
tial HamiltonianH i=P
j
−X j+hb
jZj
to the target Hamilto-
nianH f, i.e.H ad=(1−λ)H i+λH f, whereλis a schedul-
ing function satisfyingλ(0)=0,λ(T)=1, andTbeing the
evolution time. Specifically, in all experiments we use the
smooth scheduleλ(t)=sin2hπ
2sin2πt
2Ti
, whose first deriva-
tive vanishes att=0 andt=T. Doing arbitrary long
evolution times is not feasible experimentally due to deco-
herence. Then, a counterdiabatic (CD) protocol is needed
to overcome this issue, which modifies the adiabatic path as
H=H ad+˙λAλ. We chooseA λas the first order nested com-
mutator expansion [28], namelyA λ=iα(λ)h
Hi,Hfi
, where
α(λ)=−h
Hi,Hfi2
/h
Had,h
Hi,Hfii2
. Throughout,∥·∥de-
notes the trace norm.
For short evolution times, the magnitude of the CD term
dominates over the adiabatic one, i.e.˙λAλ≫∥Had∥, and
the time evolution operatorUis effectively generated by
H≈ ˙λAλ. Doing this effective time evolution in a digital quan-
tum computer is known as digitized counterdiabatic quantum
optimization (DCQO) in the impulse regime [29]. The dig-
itization of the time evolution operator can be done through
Trotterization, yielding
Udig=nstepsY
k=1ntermsY
j=1e−i∆t H j(k∆t),(6)
whereT=n steps∆tand the Hamiltonian has been expanded
asH=Pnterms
j=1Hj, see Algorithm 2. To further reduce cir-
cuit depth and accumulated noise in the digital implementa-
tion, we employ a pruning procedure at the compilation level.
Pruning consists of discarding gates whose rotation angles
fall below a fixed thresholdθ cut-off , as these correspond to
weak contributions to the implemented evolution. In practice,
this acts as a controlled approximation that lowers hardware
overhead while preserving the dominant structure of the cost
Hamiltonian.
The circuits are built using Qiskit [30]. Once compiled,
BF-DCQO applies DCQO iteratively by modifying the bias
fieldshb
jfromH i, favoring a certain orientation of the qubits,
see Algorithm 3. Furthermore, at each iteration we select the
nllowest-energy samples and perform five sweeps of zero-
temperature simulated annealing as post-processing to correct
for bit-flip errors while getting better samples. We then up-
date the bias fields using the empirical spin orientations of the
measured distributionh(b)
i←−⟨σz
i⟩, where⟨σz
i⟩is computed
from the subset of post-processedn lsamples. In this work,Algorithm 2:Digitized Counterdiabatic Evolution
(DCQO)
Input:Initial HamiltonianH i, target HamiltonianH f,
scheduleλ(t), time step∆t, thresholdθ cut-off
Output:Digitized unitary evolution operatorU dig
1Compute the counterdiabatic termA λ=iα(λ)[H i,H f]
2InitializeU dig←I
3fork=1...n stepsdo
4-Letλ k=λ(k∆t)
5-EvaluateH k=˙λkAλk
6-DecomposeH k=P
jrj,kPj,k, withP j,ka Pauli product
7-Compute the Trotterized step
Uk=Y
j∈Jexp
−i∆t r j,kPj,k
8whereJis the set of indices for which∆t r j,k>θ cut-off
9-UpdateU dig←U kUdig
10returnU dig
Algorithm 3:Bias-Field Digitized Counterdiabatic
Quantum Optimization (BF-DCQO)
Input:Target HamiltonianH f; initial bias fieldsh(b)
j; number
of iterationsR, number of low energy samples to keep
nl
Output:Best sampled bitstring
1forr=1...Rdo
2-Construct biased driver
H(r)
i=X
j
−X j+h(b)
j,rZj
3-Execute DCQO using Algorithm 2 and obtain
measurement samples
4-Compute classical energies of all measured bitstrings
underH f
5-Sort samples by increasing energy
6-Post-select then llowest-energy samples and estimate
⟨σz
j⟩
7-Seth(b)
j,r+1←−⟨σz
j⟩
8returnDistributions of bitstrings from the iterations
we limit ourselves ton l=10. Additionally, further problem-
specific post-processing is admitted on the generated samples,
as will be described in the next section.
D. Post-processing
The use of classical post-processing is motivated by two
practical considerations. First, the quantum circuits used in
this work do not explicitly preserve the cardinality constraint,
and sampling noise further spreads the measurement out-
comes around the target Hamming weight. As a result, low-
energy samples produced by BF-DCQO typically concentrate

5
near, but not exactly on, configurations with the desired car-
dinality. This first phase of the post-processing therefore per-
forms a deterministic repair that projects these near-feasible
solutions onto the constraint manifold in a controlled manner.
Second, once feasibility is restored, the repaired configu-
ration can be viewed as a high-quality starting point for a
short local exploration. We perform a lightweight neighbor-
hood search restricted to fixed Hamming weight. This reflects
the broader working hypothesis that near-term quantum op-
timizers can be effective at identifying promising regions of
the search space, while classical heuristics remain well-suited
to perform fine-grained improvements [31]. We present this
two-phase approach in Algorithm 4.
Gradient-based Hamming weight recovery.––Letw(x)=Pn
i=1xidenote the Hamming weight ofx, and let∇f(x) be the
continuous gradient of the quadratic form
∇f(x)=2Qx+q.(7)
Ifw(x)=K, we skip this phase. Otherwise:
•Ifw(x)>K, we must deactivate (w(x)−K) assets.
Among all indicesiwithx i=1, we sort them by de-
creasing∇f(x) iand flip to 0 the firstw(x)−Kindices.
Intuitively, large positive gradient entries indicate vari-
ables that are most harmful to keep active.
•Ifw(x)<K, we must activate (K−w(x)) assets. Among
all indicesiwithx i=0, we sort them by increasing
∇f(x) iand flip to 1 the firstK−w(x) indices. Small
(or negative) gradient entries indicate variables that are
beneficial to activate.
This phase yields a bit stringxthat satisfiesw(x)=Kwith
a single pass of gradient-based flips.
First-improvement swap-based local search.––Starting
from the repaired configurationxof weightK, we perform
a local search over the cardinality-preserving neighborhood
defined by all pairwise swaps (i,j) withx i=0 andx j=1:
x′=x+e i−e j,
wheree iis thei-th unit vector. In each iteration, we randomly
permute the sets of indices withx i=0 andx j=1 and scan
swap pairs in this randomized order. The first swap that yields
a strict improvementf(x′)<f(x) is accepted immediately
(first-improvement rule), and the index sets are updated ac-
cordingly. To control runtime, we limit the number of swap
evaluations per iteration to 100 and terminate the search if
either a maximum number of iterations is reached or no im-
proving swap is found for a prescribed number of consecutive
iterations. The procedure returns the locally optimal (w.r.t.
swap moves) bit string of weightK, together with bookkeep-
ing information such as the number of iterations and the im-
provements achieved in each phase.
IV . RESULTS
We benchmark the hardware-aware quantum optimization
pipeline described in Sec. II and Sec. III on real data. OurAlgorithm 4:Two-phase local search with cardinality
constraint
Input:Initialx∈{0,1}n; QUBO (Q,q,c); target weightK;
max itersT max; patienceP.
Output:Locally improved ˜xwithP
i˜xi=K.
1f init←x⊤Qx+q⊤x+c;w←P
ixi
2Phase 1: cardinality repair
3ifw,Kthen
4g←2Qx+q
5ifw>KthenS←{i:x i=1}sorted byg iin
descending order; flipx i←0 for first (w−K) indices in
S
6elseS←{i:x i=0}sorted byg iin ascending order; flip
xi←1 for first (K−w) indices inS
7f p1←x⊤Qx+q⊤x+c;∆ p1←f init−f p1
8Phase 2: swap local search
9f←f p1;t←0;p←0
10S 0←{i:x i=0};S 1←{j:x j=1}
11maxSwaps←min 100,|S 0||S1|
12whilet<T max andp<Pdo
13improved←false;s←0
14randomly permuteS 0andS 1
15fori∈S 0do
16ifimproved or s≥maxSwapsthen
17break
18forj∈S 1do
19ifs≥maxSwapsthen
20break
21x i←1,x j←0;f′←x⊤Qx+q⊤x+c;
s←s+1
22iff′<fthen
23f←f′;S 0←{k:x k=0};
S1←{k:x k=1}
24improved←true;p←0;break
25else
26x i←0,x j←1
27ifnotimprovedthen
28p←p+1
29t←t+1
30return˜x←x
TABLE I. Cluster statistics for the hardware-aware decomposition of
a 250-asset universe under different qubit limitsQ max. In bold font
the system sizes that were tackled on quantum hardware.
Hardware # Clusters Cluster sizes
36 qubits 14 [2,8,36,5,10,13,10,1,26,24,36,19,36,24]
64 qubits 11 [2,8,41,10,13,10,1,26,24,55,60]
goal is to assess how the decomposition adapts to different
hardware qubit limits, and how the BF-DCQO plus local-
search combination performs on the resulting portfolio opti-
mization instances. In particular, we focus on the end-to-end
executability of the pipeline, starting from a dense 250-asset
objective, proceeding through hardware-sized Ising subprob-
lems, and culminating in reconstructed global portfolios that
satisfy the fixed-cardinality constraint.

6
51525DensityGlobal reference
Recombined reference + LS
Recombined referenceBF-DCQO + LS
BF-DCQO
(a)
51525Density(b)
1.9 2.0 2.1 2.251015Density
3.6 3.8 4.0(c)
Objective Value
FIG. 2. Energy distribution of global candidate portfolios under dif-
ferent hardware and pruning configurations. From top to bottom,
the panels correspond to (a) the 36-qubit decomposition with high
pruning on IonQ Forte, (b) the 36-qubit decomposition with medium
pruning on IonQ Forte, and (c) the 64-qubit decomposition with
medium pruning on the IonQ 64-qubit Barium development system.
Orange histograms show the energy distribution obtained by running
BF-DCQO on the largest subproblem, applying the two-phase local
search at the cluster level and then, recombining into global can-
didates. Blue histograms show the corresponding distributions af-
ter applying the two-phase local-search post-processing. Red dotted
vertical lines indicate the energy of the recombined optimal solution
obtained by merging the individually optimal subproblem solutions,
while blue dash-dotted lines denote this recombined optimum after
local search. The black dashed lines mark the global optimum of the
full problem, obtained by the Gurobi solver.
We construct the universe ofn=250 assets from the
S&P 500 index. For each constituent, we use daily closing
prices over the period2020-01-02to2025-08-22, corre-
sponding to 1418 trading days. Daily log-returns are then
computed asr t=log (pt/pt−1). From the resulting return
matrix, we select the 250 assets with the most complete his-
tory, leading to a final data set with dimensions approximately
(1418,250). From these returns, we compute the sample mean
vector, covariance matrix, and the empirical correlation matrix
used in the decomposition pipeline. We takeK=n/2=125
for the global cardinality constraint.
We consider two target devices with different limits:
Qmax =36 andQ max =64 qubits, corresponding to
IonQ Forte and the 64-qubit Barium development sys-
0.090.110.13Annual Return(a)BF-DCQO+LS
Random selection+LSGlobal reference
Recombined reference+LS
0.090.110.13Annual Return(b)
0.18 0.20 0.22
Annual Risk0.090.110.13Annual Return(c)
2.002.402.803.20
Global objective
2.002.402.803.20
Global objective
2.002.402.803.20
Global objectiveFIG. 3. Return-risk distribution of global candidate portfolios gener-
ated by the clustered BF-DCQO pipeline under different hardware
and pruning configurations. From top to bottom, the panels cor-
respond to (a) the 36-qubit decomposition with high pruning, (b)
the 36-qubit decomposition with medium pruning, and (c) the 64-
qubit decomposition with medium pruning. Square markers denote
portfolios obtained from random initialization followed by classi-
cal post-processing, while circular markers represent post-processed
candidates. The global reference portfolio is indicated by a red star,
and the recombined reference portfolio is shown as a blue×. The
color scale encodes the objective value of each portfolio. The post-
processing budget is intentionally small (Sec. III D) so that differ-
ences primarily reflect the quality of the initial candidate pools.
tem. In both cases, the full 250-asset universe is parti-
tioned into independent subproblems whose sizes do not
exceed the correspondingQ max. Following Algorithm 1,
for the 36-qubit setting we obtain 14 clusters with sizes
[2,8,36,5,10,13,10,1,26,24,36,19,36,24], yielding three
subproblems of the maximal size 36. For the 64-qubit set-
ting the same universe is grouped into 11 clusters of sizes
[2,8,41,10,13,10,1,26,24,55,60], with the largest subprob-
lems containing 41, 55, and 60 assets. This is summarized in
Table I. As expected, increasing the qubit budget reduces the
number of clusters and allows for larger instances to be treated
directly on quantum hardware.
For each cluster we construct the cost functionf subproblem (x)
usingK subproblem =n subproblem/2 for the cardinality constraint.
We map it to an Ising HamiltonianH f, and run the BF-DCQO
algorithm. All cluster problems are solved with the same
quantum hyperparameters: two Trotter steps with time step
∆t=0.1, and 10 iterations per tackled subproblem. For the
IonQ Forte runs, we only tackle the three 36 qubit subprob-
lems using BF-DCQO with 4000 shots per iteration. The re-
maining subproblems of smaller size are solved exactly us-

7
ing Gurobi [32] via Qiskit [30]. Similarly, we only tackle
the 41,55,60-qubit instances with the 64-qubit Barium de-
velopment system using 4000, 5000 and 6000 shots per it-
eration, respectively. We also define two levels of pruning
for each case. For the 36-qubit decomposition, medium prun-
ing removes roughly 40% of the gates following Algorithm 2,
whereas high pruning the 60%. On the other hand, for the
64-qubit decomposition, we only implement medium pruning,
which removes about 50%−70% of the gates.
To construct approximate solutions for the global 250-asset
portfolio, we recombine cluster solutions by direct concatena-
tion. For a fixed cluster ordering, a global bitstring is formed
by placing the bits of each cluster-level candidate into their
corresponding asset positions, yielding a full-length portfolio
configuration. Based on this recombination rule, we build a
candidate pool of size 1000 by sampling and post-processing
low-energy cluster solutions. Specifically, for each cluster
tackled with BF-DCQO, we collect the best bitstring from
each iteration, adding up to a total of 10 bitstrings per cluster.
These bitstrings are then post-processed at the cluster-level
following the two-phase local search procedure of Sec. III D,
using a maximum of 100 iterations and an early-stop after one
iteration without improvement. The raw distributions for each
subproblem are shown in Appendix B. In this way, we gener-
ate 1000 global independent bitstrings, providing a diverse set
of candidate portfolios concentrated in low-energy regions of
the global objective. Then, these global candidates are further
refined using the two-phase local search.
Figure 2 shows the distribution of objective values of global
candidate portfolios generated by recombining low-energy so-
lutions of the clustered subproblems. A comparison of the
three panels shows that increasing the available qubit bud-
get fromQ max=36 toQ max=64 systematically improves
the best post-processed objective values obtained from the re-
combined candidate pool. The 64-qubit decomposition yields
post-processed solutions that are closer to the global refer-
ence optimum than those obtained in the 36-qubit cases. At
fixed hardware size (36 qubits), medium pruning produces
a slightly but not significantly lower-energy distribution than
high pruning. This suggests that lower-resource Hamiltonian
representations may remain competitive in practice, particu-
larly on near-term devices where reduced circuit complexity
can partially offset the loss of model fidelity.
Importantly, Fig. 2 indicates that, in several cases, the best
post-processed portfolios achieve objective values lower than
those of the post-processed recombined reference, which is
obtained by merging the individually optimal subproblem so-
lutions and applying local search on it. This behavior high-
lights the nontrivial role of global local search: candidate
portfolios that are suboptimal prior to post-processing can be
steered toward lower-energy configurations once the global
cardinality constraint is enforced and inter-cluster swap moves
are allowed. As a result, the recombined reference should be
viewed as a baseline rather than an upper bound on achievable
solution quality within the hybrid pipeline.
Despite the substantial improvement introduced by local
search, the post-processed distributions do not collapse onto
the global optimum, even in the largest (64-qubit) hardwaresetting. This residual gap indicates that the dominant limita-
tions arise from the approximate nature of the decomposition.
Nevertheless, the observed monotonic improvement with in-
creasing qubit budget demonstrates that the hardware-aware
decomposition adapts smoothly to larger devices and that
larger embeddable subproblems translate directly into higher-
quality global portfolios within the same hybrid pipeline.
Figure 3 represents the global candidate portfolios in the
annualized risk-return plane. While the QUBO/Ising objec-
tive ranks portfolios by a single scalar value, it does not reveal
how solutions trade offfinancial risk against expected return.
Showing candidate solutions in the risk-return plane, there-
fore, allows one to assess the financial structure and diversity
of the solution set produced by the hybrid pipeline.
Across all configurations, BF-DCQO with local search (LS)
generates a broad distribution of feasible portfolios spanning
a continuous range of risk and return levels. The presence of
extended bands of solutions with comparable objective values
indicates a high degree of near-degeneracy in the combina-
torial objective, whereby portfolios with similar energies can
exhibit meaningfully different financial characteristics. In par-
ticular, low-objective portfolios are not confined to extreme-
risk or extreme-return regions, but instead populate the inte-
rior of the feasible domain, demonstrating that objective im-
provements are associated with financially interpretable trade-
offs.
V . CONCLUSIONS
We presented a hardware-aware decomposition pipeline for
fixed-cardinality portfolio optimization that enables end-to-
end execution on today’s and near-term gate-based quantum
processors. The central design choice is to treat the executable
qubit budget as an explicit constraint during decomposition,
producing hardware-sized Ising subproblems and a practical
path from empirical market data to feasible portfolios under
realistic device limits.
On a 250-asset equity universe, we evaluated the full work-
flow under trapped-ion-motivated qubit budgets and executed
the largest subproblems on IonQ hardware using BF-DCQO.
We observe that increasing the executable subproblem size
improves the final global portfolio quality after recombination
and post-processing, consistent with reduced decomposition-
induced approximation error as fewer cross-cluster interac-
tions are omitted. At a fixed qubit budget, varying the prun-
ing level yields similar end-to-end performance, indicating
that moderate approximations of the implemented Hamilto-
nian can reduce circuit cost without necessarily degrading the
final solution quality on current noisy hardware. These obser-
vations clarify a practical trade-offbetween circuit complexity
and optimization performance in decomposition-based quan-
tum workflows.
Several directions merit further study. Algorithmically, in-
corporating cross-cluster couplings more explicitly during re-
combination and expanding the neighborhood structure used
in global refinement could further close the gap to the global
optimum. From the hardware perspective, larger qubit counts

8
and improved gate fidelities would directly translate into
larger executable subproblems and fewer clusters, improv-
ing solution quality within the same pipeline. Finally, be-
cause subproblems can be solved independently, the work-
flow is naturally parallel and could leverage multiple homo-
geneous or heterogeneous QPUs. Overall, our results estab-
lish hardware-aware decomposition as a practical and scal-
able pathway for bringing quantum optimization methods to
structured financial decision problems on today’s and near-
term quantum processors.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Michael Wurster and Sebastian Wagner for their
support on the Kipu Quantum Hub platform while running the
experiments. We thank Coleman Collins, Neal Pisenti, and
Ken Wright for discussions and their support.
Appendix A: QUBO/Ising formulation
The optimization of Eq. (1) contains a cardinality con-
straint. In this appendix, we show how to convert this con-
strained problem into an unconstrained one, and additionally,
how to map it into an Ising Hamiltonian.
We define the QUBO cost functionf(x) as a penalized
objective for the configurations that violate the constraint,
namely
f(x)=γ−1
2µTx+γ+1
2xTCx+ ΛnX
i=1xi−K2
,(A1)
whereΛis the Lagrange multiplier, quantifying the strength of
the penalty for invalid configurations. Expanding the penalty
term results in
f(x)= γ−1
2µT−2KΛ1T!
x+xT 1+γ
2C−Λ1·1T!
x+K2Λ
=x⊤Qx+q⊤x+K2Λ,(A2)
which is equivalent to Eq. (2). Additionally, in this work,
we pick the penalty coefficient as
Λ =2·max
i∈{1,...,n}Ii,(A3)
whereI i=|q i+Q ii|+Pn
j=1,j,i|Qi j|. This ensures that con-
straint violations are always more costly than any potential
benefit from the original objective. The factor of 2 provides a
conservative safety margin, while the influence-based calcu-
lation makes the penalty adaptive to the problem’s coefficient
magnitudes.
In order write the cost function as a HamiltonianH f, whose
ground state is the solution of the optimization problem, we
perform the mappingx→1
2(1−z), withz=(z 1,···,z n)
0.045 0.050 0.055 0.0600200400Density(a)Reference
BF-DCQO + LS (Cluster)BF-DCQO (raw)
0.06 0.07 0.080200Density(b)
0.065 0.070 0.075 0.080 0.085
Objective Value0200400Density(c)FIG. 4. Superposed top-10 samples of each iteration of BF-DCQO
on IonQ Forte using high pruning. We show the distributions before
and after cluster-level local search for (a) the first 36-qubit cluster,
(b) the second 36-qubit cluster and (c) the last 36-qubit cluster.
0.045 0.050 0.055 0.0600250500Density(a)Reference
BF-DCQO + LS (Cluster)BF-DCQO (raw)
0.06 0.07 0.080200Density(b)
0.065 0.070 0.075 0.080 0.085
Objective Value0100200Density(c)
FIG. 5. Superposed top-10 samples of each iteration of BF-DCQO on
IonQ Forte using medium pruning. We show the distributions before
and after cluster-level local search for (a) the first 36-qubit cluster,
(b) the second 36-qubit cluster and (c) the last 36-qubit cluster.
andz i∈[−1,1] the Pauli-Z operator for thei-th spin. After

9
0.06 0.080100200Density(a)Reference
BF-DCQO + LS (Cluster)BF-DCQO (raw)
0.075 0.100 0.125 0.150 0.175050100Density(b)
0.125 0.150 0.175 0.200
Objective Value050Density(c)
FIG. 6. Superposed top-10 samples of each iteration of BF-DCQO
on the 64-qubit Barium development system using medium pruning.
We show the distributions before and after cluster-level local search
for (a) the 41-qubit cluster, (b) the 55-qubit cluster and (c) the 60-
qubit cluster.substitution, we obtain
Hf=1
4zTQz−1
2
1TQ+qT
z+1
41TQ1+1
2qT1+KΛ
=hTz+zTJz+const.,(A4)
which is equivalent to Eq. (3)
Appendix B: Raw quantum distributions for the subproblems
In this section, we show the distributions for the clusters
of the 36-qubit decompositions as well as the 64-qubit ones,
see Figs. 4,5 and 6. The qualitative differences between the
36- and 64- qubit runs distributions can be explained by two
main factors. First, on the hardware side, the device exhibited
stronger noise, making it more difficult to skew the distribu-
tions effectively. In addition, the entangling gate budget was
kept the same for both the 36-qubit and 64-qubit runs. As
a result, the larger system suffered from a reduced solution
quality. Second, algorithmically, the bias update for the 36-
qubit cases was computed using only 10 states, whereas for
the 64-qubit case, we used 100 states. This choice was made
to prevent overly strong early biases, given the larger Hilbert
space. While this helps avoid trapping effects as system size
increases, it can also cause the distribution to have a larger
variance, especially in the presence of noise.
[1] R. Mansini, W. Ogryczak, and M. G. Speranza, Twenty years
of linear programming based portfolio optimization, European
Journal of Operational Research234, 518 (2014), 60 years fol-
lowing Harry Markowitz’s contribution to portfolio theory and
operations research.
[2] S. Ceria and R. A. Stubbs, Incorporating estimation errors into
portfolio selection: Robust portfolio construction, Journal of
Asset Management7, 109 (2006).
[3] H. Kellerer, R. Mansini, and M. G. Speranza, Selecting portfo-
lios with fixed costs and minimum transaction lots, Annals of
Operations Research99, 287 (2000).
[4] T.-J. Chang, N. Meade, J. Beasley, and Y . Sharaiha, Heuristics
for cardinality constrained portfolio optimisation, Computers &
Operations Research27, 1271 (2000).
[5] N. J. J. , M. D. H. , C. A. L. , and G. M. , Computational
aspects of alternative portfolio selection models in the presence
of discrete asset choice constraints, Quantitative Finance1, 489
(2001).
[6] D. Bertsimas and R. Shioda, Algorithm for cardinality-
constrained quadratic optimization, Computational Optimiza-
tion and Applications43, 1 (2009).
[7] H. Markowitz, Portfolio selection, The Journal of Finance7, 77
(1952).
[8] A. Lucas, Ising formulations of many np problems, Frontiers in
physics2, 74887 (2014).
[9] G. Rosenberg, P. Haghnegahdar, P. Goddard, P. Carr, K. Wu,
and M. L. de Prado, Solving the optimal trading trajectory prob-
lem using a quantum annealer, IEEE Journal of Selected Topics
in Signal Processing10, 1053 (2016).[10] T. Albash and D. A. Lidar, Adiabatic quantum computation,
Rev. Mod. Phys.90, 015002 (2018).
[11] E. Farhi, J. Goldstone, and S. Gutmann, A quantum approxi-
mate optimization algorithm (2014), arXiv:1411.4028 [quant-
ph].
[12] N. N. Hegade, K. Paul, Y . Ding, M. Sanz, F. Albarr ´an-
Arriagada, E. Solano, and X. Chen, Shortcuts to adiabaticity
in digitized adiabatic quantum computing, Phys. Rev. Appl.15,
024038 (2021).
[13] N. N. Hegade, P. Chandarana, K. Paul, X. Chen, F. Albarr ´an-
Arriagada, and E. Solano, Portfolio optimization with digitized
counterdiabatic quantum algorithms, Phys. Rev. Res.4, 043204
(2022).
[14] A. G. Cadavid, A. Dalal, A. Simen, E. Solano, and N. N.
Hegade, Bias-field digitized counterdiabatic quantum optimiza-
tion, Phys. Rev. Res.7, L022010 (2025).
[15] S. V . Romero, A.-M. Visuri, A. Gomez Cadavid, A. Simen,
E. Solano, and N. N. Hegade, Bias-field digitized counterdia-
batic quantum algorithm for higher-order binary optimization,
Communications Physics8, 348 (2025).
[16] D. J. Egger, J. Mare ˇcek, and S. Woerner, Warm-starting quan-
tum optimization, Quantum5, 479 (2021).
[17] M. P. Harrigan, K. J. Sung, M. Neeley, K. J. Satzinger, F. Arute,
K. Arya, J. Atalaya, J. C. Bardin, R. Barends, S. Boixo,et al.,
Quantum approximate optimization of non-planar graph prob-
lems on a planar superconducting processor, Nature Physics17,
332–336 (2021).
[18] E. Pelofske, A. B ¨artschi, and S. Eidenbenz, Short-depth qaoa
circuits and quantum annealing on higher-order ising models,
npj Quantum Information10, 30 (2024).

10
[19] Z. Zhao, L. Fan, and Z. Han, Hybrid quantum benders’ de-
composition for mixed-integer linear programming, in2022
IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference
(WCNC)(IEEE, 2022) pp. 2536–2540.
[20] A. Acharya, R. Yalovetzky, P. Minssen, S. Chakrabarti,
R. Shaydulin, R. Raymond, Y . Sun, D. Herman, R. S. Andrist,
G. Salton, M. J. A. Schuetz, H. G. Katzgraber, and M. Pistoia,
Decomposition pipeline for large-scale portfolio optimization
with applications to near-term quantum computing, Phys. Rev.
Res.7, 023142 (2025).
[21] V . P. Soloviev and M. Krompiec, Large-scale portfolio op-
timization using pauli correlation encoding, arXiv preprint
arXiv:2511.21305 (2025).
[22] ”JPMorgan Chase & Contributors”, dcmppln: Decomposi-
tion Pipeline for Large-Scale Portfolio Optimization,https:
//github.com/jpmorganchase/dcmppln(2024), gitHub
repository, accessed 2026-01-19.
[23] J.-S. Chen, E. Nielsen, M. Ebert, V . Inlek, K. Wright, V . Chap-
lin, A. Maksymov, E. P ´aez, A. Poudel, P. Maunz,et al., Bench-
marking a trapped-ion quantum computer with 30 qubits, Quan-
tum8, 1516 (2024).
[24] S. Kim, R. R. McLeod, M. Saffman, and K. H. Wagner,
Doppler-free, multiwavelength acousto-optic deflector for two-
photon addressing arrays of Rb atoms in a quantum information
processor, Appl. Opt.47, 1816 (2008).[25] I. Pogorelov, T. Feldker, C. D. Marciniak, L. Postler, G. Ja-
cob, O. Krieglsteiner, V . Podlesnic, M. Meth, V . Negnevit-
sky, M. Stadler,et al., Compact Ion-Trap Quantum Computing
Demonstrator, PRX Quantum2, 020343 (2021).
[26] A. Maksymov, J. Nguyen, Y . Nam, and I. Markov, Enhanc-
ing quantum computer performance via symmetrization (2023),
arXiv:2301.07233 [quant-ph].
[27] P. Chandarana, A. G. Cadavid, S. V . Romero, A. Simen,
E. Solano, and N. N. Hegade, Runtime quantum advantage with
digital quantum optimization (2025), arXiv:2505.08663 [quant-
ph].
[28] P. W. Claeys, M. Pandey, D. Sels, and A. Polkovnikov, Floquet-
engineering counterdiabatic protocols in quantum many-body
systems, Phys. Rev. Lett.123, 090602 (2019).
[29] A. G. Cadavid, I. Montalban, A. Dalal, E. Solano, and N. N.
Hegade, Efficient digitized counterdiabatic quantum optimiza-
tion algorithm within the impulse regime for portfolio optimiza-
tion, Phys. Rev. Appl.22, 054037 (2024).
[30] A. Javadi-Abhari, M. Treinish, K. Krsulich, C. J. Wood, J. Lish-
man, J. Gacon, S. Martiel, P. D. Nation, L. S. Bishop, A. W.
Cross, B. R. Johnson, and J. M. Gambetta, Quantum comput-
ing with Qiskit (2024), arXiv:2405.08810 [quant-ph].
[31] P. Chandarana, S. V . Romero, A. G. Cadavid, A. Simen,
E. Solano, and N. N. Hegade, Hybrid sequential quantum com-
puting (2025), arXiv:2510.05851 [quant-ph].
[32] Gurobi Optimization, LLC, Gurobi Optimizer Reference Man-
ual,https://www.gurobi.com(2024).