Quantum scientists release 'manifesto' opposing the militarization of quantum research – Physics World Skip to main content IOP Publishing site Menu Sign in Register Back to homepage Topics Browse articles by topic Astronomy and space Atomic and molecular Biophysics and bioengineering Condensed matter Culture, history and society Environment and energy Instrumentation and measurement Materials Mathematics and computation Medical physics Optics and photonics Particle and nuclear People Quantum Scientific enterprise Latest contentBrowse articles by content typeShort readsResearch updatesNewsBlogInnovation showcasesEventsLong readsFeaturesOpinion and reviewsInterviewsAnalysisMultimediaPodcastsVideoWebinarsMagazinePhysics World Live IOP Physics World Jobs logo SearchOpen Search Dialog Search by content type, topic, person, research area and more SearchSubmit search IOP Publishing Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Watch us on Youtube RSS Feed Jobs Sign in Register Enter e-mail address Enter password Show passwordPassword field is now showing your password Remember me Forgot your password? Are you an IOP member? Sign into your Physics World account to get access to all available digital issues of the monthly magazine. Your Physics World account is separate to any IOP accounts you may have Sign in to Access more than 20 years of online content Manage which e-mail newsletters you want to receive Read about the big breakthroughs and innovations across 13 scientific topics Explore the key issues and trends within the global scientific community Enter e-mail address Are you an IOP member? Create a Physics World account to get access to all available digital issues of the monthly magazine. Your Physics World account is separate to any IOP accounts you may have. Note: The verification e-mail to complete your account registration should arrive immediately. However, in some cases it takes longer. Don't forget to check your spam folder. If you haven't received the e-mail in 24 hours, please contact customerservices@ioppublishing.org. Registration is free, quick and easy Access more than 20 years of online content Choose which e-mail newsletters you want to receive Read about the big breakthroughs and innovations across 13 scientific topics Explore the key issues and trends within the global scientific community Reset your password Please enter the e-mail address you used to register to reset your password Note: The verification e-mail to change your password should arrive immediately. However, in some cases it takes longer. Don't forget to check your spam folder. If you haven't received the e-mail in 24 hours, please contact customerservices@ioppublishing.org Enter e-mail address Registration complete Thank you for registering with Physics World If you'd like to change your details at any time, please visit My account Close Quantum Home » Quantum » Quantum scientists release ‘manifesto’ opposing the militarization of quantum research Quantum News Quantum scientists release ‘manifesto’ opposing the militarization of quantum research 16 Feb 2026 Michael Banks Joining forces Some 250 quantum scientists have signed the manifesto that “categorically rejects” the use of quantum research for military applications. (Courtesy: iStock/koto feja) More than 250 quantum scientists have signed a “manifesto” opposing the use of quantum research for military purposes. The statement – quantum scientists for disarmament –  expresses a “deep concern” about the current geopolitical situation and “categorically rejects” the militarization of quantum research or its use in population control and surveillance. The signatories now call for an open debate about the ethical implications of quantum research. While quantum science has the potential to improve many different areas – from sensors and medicine to computing – some are concerned about its applications for military purposes. They includes quantum key distribution and cryptographic networks for communication as well as quantum clocks and sensing for military navigation and positioning. Marco Cattaneo from the University of Helsinki in Finland, who co-authored the manifesto, says that even the potential applications of quantum technologies in warfare can be used to militarize universities and research agendas, which he says is already happening. He notes it is not unusual for scientists to openly discuss military applications at conferences or to include such details in scientific papers. “We are already witnessing restrictions on research collaborations with fellow quantum scientists from countries that are geopolitically opposed or ambiguous with respect to the European Union, such as Russia or China,” says Cattaneo. “When talking with our non-European colleagues, we also realized that these concerns are global and multifaceted.” Long-term aims The idea for a manifesto originated during a quantum-information workshop that was held in Benasque in Spain between June and July 2025. “During a session on science policy, we realized that many of us shared the same concerns about the growing militarization of quantum science and academia,” Cattaneo recalls. “As physicists, we have a strong – and terrible – historical example that can guide our actions: the development of nuclear weapons, and the way the physics community organized to oppose them and to push for their control and abolition.” Cattaneo says that the first goal of the manifesto is to address the militarization of quantum research, which he calls “the elephant in the room”. The document also aims to raise awareness and open a debate within the community and create a forum where concerns can be shared. Why we need to consider the ethical implications of quantum technologies Read more “A longer-term goal is to prevent, or at least to limit and critically address, research on quantum technologies for military purposes,” says Cattaneo. He notes that “one concrete proposal” is to push public universities and research institutes to publish a database of all projects with military goals or military funding, which, he says,  “would be a major step forward.” Cattaneo claims the group is “not naïve” and understands that stopping the technology’s military application completely will not be possible. “Even if military uses of some quantum technologies cannot be completely stopped, we can still advocate for excluding them from public universities, for abolishing classified quantum research in public research institutions, and for creating associations and committees that review and limit the militarization of quantum technologies,” he adds. Want to read more? Registration is free, quick and easy Note: The verification e-mail to complete your account registration should arrive immediately. However, in some cases it takes longer. Don't forget to check your spam folder. If you haven't received the e-mail in 24 hours, please contact customerservices@ioppublishing.org. E-mail Address Register Michael Banks is news editor of Physics World magazine Back to Quantum Physics World Quantum Briefing 2.0 Read our free digital issue of the Physics World Quantum Briefing today. Read previous India announces three new telescopes in the Himalayan desert Astronomy and space News Discover more from Physics World Quantum Podcasts Quantum Systems Accelerator focuses on technologies for computing Quantum News International Year of Quantum Science and Technology draws to a close Biomedical devices Research update New quantum-enabled proteins could improve biosensing Related jobs Espoo | Aalto University Postdoctoral Researcher Position in AI/DFT/DMFT Computational Materials Discovery China | Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences Faculty Positions at Institute of Physics (IOP), Chinese Academy of Sciences Washington D.C. | National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine Postdoctoral Research Associates - NRC Research Associateship Programs Related events Quantum | Workshop Post-selection for quantum control (PoSeQu26) 23—27 February 2026 | Dresden, Germany Gravity | Meeting Gravitational Physics Group Annual Scientific Meeting 2026 25 February 2026 | London, UK Quantum | Forum Quantum many-body systems out of equilibrium: Relaxation, thermalization and ergodicity breaking (QMBSOE26) 31 August — 4 September 2026 | Dresden, Germany Copyright © 2026 by IOP Publishing Ltd and individual contributors Follow us on Facebook Follow us on LinkedIn Watch us on Youtube Follow us on Bluesky RSS Feed Sign in Register Our mission Physics World represents a key part of IOP Publishing’s mission to communicate world-class research and innovation to the widest possible audience. The website forms part of the Physics World portfolio, a collection of online, digital and print information services for the global scientific community. Podcasts Physics World Weekly Physics World Stories Explore About us Our team Our portfolio Advertising Collections Our AI policy Contact us Feedback More information Institute of Physics Join the Institute Modern Slavery Act Privacy and cookies IOP Publishing Copyright Terms and conditions Disclaimer Back to top