Intel Ends Work On Quantum Compiler Open-Source Bits - Phoronix Articles & Reviews News Archive Forums Premium Ad-Free Contact Popular Categories Close Articles & Reviews News Archive Forums Premium Contact Categories Computers Display Drivers Graphics Cards Linux Gaming Memory Motherboards Processors Software Storage Operating Systems Peripherals Intel Ends Work On Quantum Compiler Open-Source Bits Written by Michael Larabel in Intel on 14 February 2026 at 09:08 AM EST. 17 Comments Following Intel recently discontinuing a number of open-source projects, this week they formally discontinued their Quantum Passes open-source project that was intended to provide additional passes for their LLVM-based compiler in the Intel Quantum SDK. The Intel Quantum SDK is their "complete quantum computing stack" for use in simulation to help in developing code to run on "quantum hardware tomorrow". The Quantum SDK includes a compiler derived from LLVM/Clang, qubit simulation back-ends, and more. The Intel Quantum Passes open-source project has been around since 2023 for providing additional out-of-tree open-source components for the Intel Quantum Compiler found with their Quantum SDK. With Intel Quantum Passes it takes the IR from Intel Quantum Intrinsics and allows developers to add their own compiler passes during the compilation process. "The passes included in this repository lowers, schedules and prepares the generated IR from clang package with the Intel Quantum SDK to the point before the qISA is generated for Intel Quantum Backends via the Quantum Runtime. The code included with this repository cannot generate a binary. The final step of compilation to target a quantum binary will need to be generated using the compilation program included with the Intel Quantum SDK." The Intel Quantum Passes code was last updated a year ago with the current Quantum SDK 1.1.1 release. There doesn't appear to have been any updated Intel Quantum SDK release now in a year but at least for that packaged software from Intel isn't disclosed as formally discontinued. But now this week the Intel Quantum Passes project has been formally discontinued and archived. On Monday the GitHub repository for Quantum Passes is marked as read-only archived with the usual messaging: "Intel will not provide or guarantee development of or support for this project, including but not limited to, maintenance, bug fixes, new releases or updates. Patches to this project are no longer accepted by Intel. If you have an ongoing need to use this project, are interested in independently developing it, or would like to maintain patches for the community, please create your own fork of the project." Not too surprising given they apparently haven't updated the Intel Quantum SDK now in one year but given the expected future of quantum computing, a bit surprising they are apparently divesting from this software work among their cost-cutting measures at the company. 17 Comments Tweet Related News Intel Nova Lake Sound Support In Linux 7.0Intel Posts 2026 Update For Cache Aware Scheduling On LinuxLinux 7.0 Performance Events Prep For Intel Xeon Diamond RapidsIntel Is Making It Easier In Linux 7.0 To Monitor Energy Use For A Group Of TasksLinux 7.0 Now Defaults To Intel TSX Auto Mode For Performance Benefits On Newer CPUsIntel Releases New Compute Runtime, Upstreams More SYCL Code To LLVM About The Author Michael Larabel is the principal author of Phoronix.com and founded the site in 2004 with a focus on enriching the Linux hardware experience. Michael has written more than 20,000 articles covering the state of Linux hardware support, Linux performance, graphics drivers, and other topics. Michael is also the lead developer of the Phoronix Test Suite, Phoromatic, and OpenBenchmarking.org automated benchmarking software. He can be followed via Twitter, LinkedIn, or contacted via MichaelLarabel.com. Popular News This Week Linus Torvalds Rejects MMC Changes For Linux 7.0 Cycle: "Complete Garbage"Linux 7.0 Officially Concluding The Rust ExperimentLinus Torvalds Confirms The Next Kernel Is Linux 7.0A Lot Of Exciting Changes To Look Forward To With Linux 7.0KDE Linux To Provide Better Hardware Support & Better PerformanceLinux 6.19 Features Include Many Benefits For Intel & AMD UsersExperimental Zones Protocol Merged To Wayland After 2+ Years, 620+ CommentsIntel Recently Shelved Numerous Open-Source Projects Latest Linux News Linux 7.0 Merges The Code To Replace The Tux Boot Logo At Build Time exFAT Achieves Better Sequential Read Performance With Linux 7.0 wlroots 0.20 Nears Release With New Protocols, Enhanced Vulkan Renderer Linux Kernel Improvement Can Make Hibernation Several Times Faster With Slow SSDs Mesa's KosmicKrisp Vulkan-On-Metal Achieves MoltenVK Feature Parity Power Sequencing Driver For PCIe M.2 Connectors Makes It Into Linux 7.0 F2FS Delivers "Several Key Performance Optimizations" With Linux 7.0 X.Org Server's "Master" Branch Now Closed With Cleaned Up State On "Main" Vim 9.2 Released With Experimental Wayland Support, Better HiDPI Display Support Linux 7.0 Merges Support For Rock Band 4 PS4 / PS5 Guitars Plus More Laptop Quirks Show Your Support, Go Premium Phoronix Premium allows ad-free access to the site, multi-page articles on a single page, and other features while supporting this site's continued operations. Latest Featured Articles Evaluating The Performance Cost To AMD SEV-SNP On EPYC 9005 VMs Arch Linux Running Well On LoongArch - Loongson 3B6000 Benchmarks Intel Arc B390 Panther Lake Generational Performance Since The Gen9 Graphics Era Intel Xeon 6780E Sierra Forest vs. AMD EPYC 9965 On Linux 6.18 Performance Windows 11 vs. Ubuntu Linux Performance For Intel Core Ultra X7 Panther Lake Support Phoronix The mission at Phoronix since 2004 has centered around enriching the Linux hardware experience. In addition to supporting our site through advertisements, you can help by subscribing to Phoronix Premium. You can also contribute to Phoronix through tips/donations via PayPal or Stripe. Phoronix Media Contact Michael Larabel Phoronix Premium Support Phoronix While Having Ad-Free Browsing, Single-Page Article Viewing Share Facebook Twitter / X Legal Disclaimer, Privacy Policy, Cookies | Privacy Manager | Contact Copyright © 2004 - 2026 by Phoronix Media. All trademarks used are properties of their respective owners. All rights reserved.