WVU physicists discover how electron interactions shape materials important for quantum computing | E-News | West Virginia University Skip to main content WVU Home WVUToday WVU Calendar Sign up for ENews | Submit item | About ENews Search Would you like to search this site specifically, or all WVU websites? Search this site Search WVU All Posts Toggle Search Home Announcements Events Colleges Research Health In The News All Posts Thursday, February 05, 2026 WVU physicists discover how electron interactions shape materials important for quantum computing Researchers at WVU and the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Molecular Engineering have discovered that by adjusting the ratio of elements in a recently discovered material called “iron telluride selenide,” they can switch “exotic” quantum states on and off in materials that are critical for building quantum computers. Iron telluride selenide is valuable to the scientists and engineers who are trying to make quantum computing a reality because it possesses superconductivity, as well as certain exotic properties. For quantum computing applications, the elements iron, tellurium and selenium are typically grown in ultra-thin films. The researchers found that by tweaking a chemical recipe and changing the interactions between electrons in the films, they could “tune” those elements, moving them between different quantum phases. They were also able to reach a highly desirable state called a “topological superconductor.” Topological superconductors are promising for building error-free quantum devices of the future because they are inherently stable and resistant to the noise that affects most quantum materials. Coauthor Subhasish Mandal, assistant professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at the WVU Eberly College of Arts and Sciences, explained that today’s most powerful computers hit a wall when tackling certain problems, from designing new drugs to cracking encryption codes. Error-free quantum computers promise to overcome those challenges, but building them requires materials with the exotic properties of topological superconductors, which are difficult to produce. The research team included University of Chicago collaborators Shuolong Yang, assistant professor of molecular engineering, and graduate student Haoran Lin. Their findings, published in Nature Communications, reveal that as the ratio of tellurium and selenium changes in iron telluride selenide, so do the correlations between different electrons. Changing those ratios serves as a sensitive control knob for engineering exotic quantum phases. “Iron telluride selenide is a unique material because it brings together all the essential ingredients one would hope for in a platform for topological superconductivity: superconductivity itself, strong spin-orbit coupling, and pronounced electronic correlations,” Mandal said. “This combination makes it an ideal system in which to explore how different quantum effects interact and compete.” The team noted that overly strong correlations pin electrons in place, while overly weak interactions wash out the material’s topological features. At the right strength, these interactions give rise to topological superconductivity, Mandal said. Christopher Jacobs, a graduate student in Mandal’s group, turned to advanced computational methods to explain the transition. Jacobs realized that the motion of electrons changed as tellurium concentrations increased, and that those changing electron correlations drove the quantum states and the way electrons behaved on the material’s surface. “Seeing this delicate balance unfold experimentally was both surprising and illuminating,” said Mandal. “It points to electron correlations as a powerful and previously underappreciated tool for engineering topological quantum matter. And it highlights the fact that quantum materials are not fixed objects — they can be actively tuned by subtle internal interactions.” Find more information. Related Study reveals how tree biology shapes records of ancient solar storms Dryad data available to faculty and researchers WRAP unavailable Feb. 13-14 Encourage undergraduate students to submit creative work to Calliope WVU research helps astronauts stay healthy on long space missions Accreditations Web Standards Privacy Notice Questions or Comments? © 2026 West Virginia University. West Virginia University is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Last updated on February 4, 2026. A-Z Site Index Campus Map WVU Careers Directory Give Handshake WVU Safety Notification System WVU Today WVU Portal WVU on Facebook WVU on Twitter WVU on YouTube