Stevens, Feenstra Reintroduce Legislation to Ensure Cutting Edge Quantum Computing Research Brings Benefits to Main Street America | Congresswoman Haley Stevens Skip to main content Phone: (202)225-8171 Email Me Address:  2411 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515 Get to Know Haley Haley's Bio Haley's Record About Michigan's 11th District How We’re Responding to the Trump Administration Connect with Haley Email Haley Subscribe to Newsletter Office Locations Share Your Health Care Story Results for Michigan Manufacturing Mondays Casework Success Stories Media In the News Press Releases Media Inquiries Get Help Appropriations Request Student Services Art Competition Congressional App Challenge Internships Military Academy Nominations Washington, D.C. Visitor Services Commendations and Greetings Capitol Flag Requests Federal Grant Applications Federal Agency Services Community Projects Funding Disclosures Home Media Press Releases Stevens, Feenstra Reintroduce Legislation to Ensure Cutting Edge Quantum Computing Research Brings Benefits to Main Street America March 6, 2026 Press Release WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Rep. Haley Stevens (D-MI) and Rep. Randy Feenstra (R-Hull) reintroduced the Quantum in Practice Act, legislation that would ensure quantum molecular simulations and modeling are included in the National Quantum Initiative.Quantum molecular simulations and modeling will enable scientists to study chemical elements and reactions with unprecedented precision. By harnessing the power of quantum computing, researchers can better understand molecular behavior, including nitrogen fixation, a key process in producing fertilizer for our agriculture industry.“Michigan is where advanced manufacturing and cutting-edge research drive innovation,” said Rep. Haley Stevens. “By expanding federal research on quantum simulations and modeling, we can power breakthroughs in automotive technology, battery development, and advanced materials. The Quantum in Practice Act is about making sure Michigan’s workers, manufacturers, and researchers lead the way and turning scientific discovery into economic growth.”“Representing one of the largest agricultural districts in the nation, it is my priority to ensure that our farmers have access to the tools and technologies they need to succeed,” said Rep. Feenstra. “Breakthrough research in quantum computing has the potential to lower input costs for farmers, improve energy storage capabilities, and produce safer, more effective medications. I am proud to reintroduce this important legislation to ensure that our Main Streets, farmers, and small businesses can benefit from these cutting-edge advancements. By investing in quantum research, we can strengthen our agricultural sector, streamline fertilizer production, and enhance quality of life across Iowa’s Fourth District.”This legislation is supported by IBM, Infleqtion, D-Wave, Quantinuum, the NSF Institute for Robust Quantum Simulation, and the NSF IUCRC Center for Quantum Technologies.“The passage of the Quantum in Practice Act would mark a pivotal moment for U.S. leadership in quantum science and its translation into real-world impact,” said Gretchen Campbell, Associate Vice President for Quantum Research and Education at the University of Maryland. “At the University of Maryland, we are committed to advancing quantum research and preparing the next generation of scientists, engineers and practitioners. This legislation will accelerate that mission and help ensure that quantum innovations conceived in our labs can become the technologies that power tomorrow’s economy.”“By including the Quantum in Practice Act in the National Quantum Initiative (NQI) reauthorization, we believe that the U.S. government will strengthen the emphasis on applied sciences across its quantum efforts,” said Allison Schwartz, D-Wave’s Senior Vice President, Global Government Relations and Public Affairs. “It’s critical that government collaborate with industry to identify the most complex public-sector challenges and leverage the strengths of each approach to quantum computing — annealing and gate-model quantum computing. Annealing quantum systems can provide solutions to challenging optimization problems today, while gate-model systems will be able to tackle other problems sets like quantum chemistry in the future. We strongly support efforts to reauthorize, expand, and advance the NQI to accelerate modernization and support holistic U.S. quantum programs.”“Indiana University is grateful to Representative Feenstra for continuing to champion this important legislation,” said Russ Mumper, Vice President for Research at Indiana University. “The Quantum in Practice Act helps ensure that federal research policy supports tools that IU researchers are already using today to better understand how molecules and materials behave at the smallest scales. That means scientists can more accurately predict how chemicals will react, how new materials might perform, or how to design better technologies before ever stepping into a lab. This legislation helps accelerate that progress and keeps the United States competitive in a rapidly advancing field."“We strongly support the Quantum in Practice Act, which would allow experts to leverage quantum computing to study chemical reactions with increased accuracy and strengthen our nation's research leadership,” said Dr. Rajeeb Hazra, President & CEO of Quantinuum. “This legislation, and the larger Reauthorization of the NQIA, is an important step for U.S. leadership in quantum science and comes at a moment of growing geopolitical urgency. We applaud Representative Feenstra for his leadership in this area."“As quantum technologies mature, the focus is increasingly shifting from research to real-world deployment,” said Dr. Pranav Gokhale, CTO, Infleqtion. "Efforts that explore how quantum computing can be applied to practical industrial challenges, including areas like advanced materials, energy systems, and agricultural inputs, reflect an important step in understanding where these technologies can deliver meaningful impact. Continued collaboration between government, industry, and research institutions will be essential to translating quantum innovation into measurable economic and societal value.”By ensuring federal quantum research efforts to include quantum molecular simulations, the legislation supports scientific breakthroughs across multiple industries, including:Next-Generation Fertilizers – Modeling the nitrogen fixation process used by bacteria to develop synthetic fertilizers with significantly lower energy and material costs than current production methods.Safer, More Effective Medicines – Designing medications with improved efficacy while minimizing harmful interactions and side effects.Advanced Energy Storage – Developing new materials that increase battery capacity and enable more powerful, efficient energy storage technologies.Stronger, Lighter Metals – Engineering advanced metals with improved strength-to-weight ratios for industrial and commercial applications.Enhanced Protective Gear – Creating more durable and resilient materials for law enforcement and military personnel.Next-Generation Conductors – Accelerating the discovery of new superconducting materials to improve energy transmission and advanced technologies.The full bill text is available HERE Image Office Locations Washington DC Office2411 Rayburn House Office BuildingWashington, DC  20515Phone: (202) 225-8171 Farmington Hills District Office30500 Northwestern HwySuite 525Farmington Hills, MI  48334Phone: (734) 853-3040 Copyright Privacy House.gov Accessibility RSS