Optical switch protocol verifies entangled quantum states in real time without destroying them Topics Week's top Latest news Unread news Subscribe Science X Account Sign In Sign in with Forget Password? Not a member? Sign up Learn more Nanotechnology Physics Earth Astronomy & Space Chemistry Biology Other Sciences Medicine Technology share this! 27 Tweet Share Email Home Physics Optics & Photonics Home Physics Quantum Physics February 16, 2026 Optical switch protocol verifies entangled quantum states in real time without destroying them by University of Vienna edited by Gaby Clark, 																								reviewed by Robert Egan Editors' notes This article has been reviewed according to Science X's editorial process and policies. Editors have highlighted the following attributes while ensuring the content's credibility: fact-checked peer-reviewed publication trusted source proofread The GIST Add as preferred source Experimental QSC. Credit: Science Advances (2026). DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aea4144 The fragility and laws of quantum physics generally make the characterization of quantum systems time‑consuming. Furthermore, when a quantum system is measured, it is destroyed in the process. A breakthrough by researchers at the University of Vienna demonstrates a novel method for quantum state certification that efficiently verifies entangled quantum states in real time without destroying all available states—a decisive step forward in the development of robust quantum computers and quantum networks. The work was carried out in Philip Walther's laboratories at the Faculty of Physics and the Vienna Center for Quantum Science and Technology (VCQ) and published in the journal Science Advances. Entangled quantum states are the fundamental building blocks of many new quantum technologies, from ultra‑secure communication to powerful quantum computing. However, before these delicate states can be used, they must be rigorously verified to ensure their quality and integrity. Conventional verification methods, such as quantum state tomography, are resource‑intensive. This is because verifying a quantum state requires a large number of individual measurements on many "copies" of the quantum system under investigation. These are then combined for verification. The demand for copies increases exponentially: the larger the system under investigation, the greater the number of copies required. Standard techniques measure each copy of the state. However, since each measurement of the quantum state destroys it, no states remain for the actual application. Optical switches enable reliable sampling To overcome these limitations, the team at the University of Vienna developed a new protocol that samples only a subset of the generated quantum states. "The key to the practical implementation of this protocol is the use of active optical switches. These switches allow us to randomly forward individual quantum states either to a verifier (for certification) or to a user (for the actual quantum task)," explains Lee Rozema from the University of Vienna, one of the lead authors of the study. These active optical switches were used to accurately and randomly capture states from the source. This is because, if it can be ensured that the samples are random, the verifier can use statistical methods to certify the user's unmeasured quantum states. High‑quality optical switches that can operate as fast as the source generates photons and do not alter the quantum state are essential for this implementation. In this process, only the measured sample is destroyed. The quality of the user's unmeasured states, on the other hand, is certified in real time in a non‑destructive manner and released for subsequent quantum operations. The new protocol also overturns the previous assumption that all states generated by the source must be identical, making it more robust for real‑world scenarios. In addition, the new protocol paves the way for device‑independent certification, which means that certification remains valid even if the measuring devices are not trustworthy, e.g., if they are controlled by a potential attacker. Discover the latest in science, tech, and space with over 100,000 subscribers who rely on Phys.org for daily insights. Sign up for our free newsletter and get updates on breakthroughs, innovations, and research that matter—daily or weekly. Subscribe Ready for tomorrow's quantum networks "Our experimental setup successfully implements this advanced certification protocol in real time, which is a crucial step towards practical, secure quantum technologies," explains Michael Antesberger from the University of Vienna, co‑first author of the study. Mariana Schmid from the University of Vienna, also co‑first author, adds, "This method is incredibly efficient, offers optimal scalability and significantly reduces the resource requirements for robust certification." "This work paves the way for more reliable quantum communication networks and advanced photonic quantum computers. This will be crucial for benchmarking the large‑scale quantum networks of tomorrow," adds Philip Walther from the University of Vienna, lead author of the publication. Publication details Michael Antesberger et al, Experimental quantum state certification by actively sampling photonic entangled states, Science Advances (2026). DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aea4144 Journal information: Science Advances Key concepts Quantum algorithms & computationQuantum communication, protocols & technologyOptical techniques Provided by University of Vienna Citation: Optical switch protocol verifies entangled quantum states in real time without destroying them (2026, February 16) retrieved 17 February 2026 from https://phys.org/news/2026-02-optical-protocol-entangled-quantum-states.html This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only. Explore further White Rabbit optical timing technology meets quantum entanglement 27 shares Facebook Twitter Email Feedback to editors Trending Featured Last Comments Replacing humans with machines is leaving truckloads of food stranded and unusable Feb 14, 2026 3 Antipathy toward snakes? Your parents likely talked you into that at an early age Feb 14, 2026 0 Deep-sea fish larvae rewrite the rules of how eyes can be built Feb 14, 2026 0 What's in your wine? Using NMR to reveal its chemical profile Feb 14, 2026 0 Study of 65,000 college students links 16 hours a week on social media to higher loneliness Feb 16, 2026 0 Double white dwarf system detected in a nearby stellar cluster 5 minutes ago Proton's width measured to unparalleled precision, narrowing the path to new physics 15 minutes ago Nanoengineers realize an on-chip excitonic hyperlens 45 minutes ago Warming winters are disrupting the hidden world of fungi—the result can shift mountain grasslands to scrub 1 hour ago A yeast enzyme helps human cells overcome mitochondrial defects 3 hours ago Elusive lithium-ion anode binder finally seen with pioneering technique 3 hours ago Tropical forests generate rainfall worth billions, study finds 3 hours ago Quantum sensor research advances the pursuit of dark matter 3 hours ago AI model learns yeast DNA 'language' to boost protein drug output 3 hours ago Bacterial strain from 5,000-year-old cave ice shows resistance against 10 modern antibiotics 8 hours ago Relevant PhysicsForums posts Pentaprism with magnification, which surface is curved? Feb 11, 2026 Volumetric Holographic Displays Jan 17, 2026 Physical intuition for FSR dependence on cavity length d in a scanning Fabry-Pérot interferometer Jan 5, 2026 Reflection from double glazed window Jan 3, 2026 How do I stretch a laser from a beam into a sheet? Dec 21, 2025 Question about the color of a thin film Dec 15, 2025 More from Optics Related Stories White Rabbit optical timing technology meets quantum entanglement Oct 2, 2025 Quantum memories reach new milestone with secure quantum money protocol Sep 22, 2025 Measuring the quantum W state: Seeing a trio of entangled photons in one go Sep 12, 2025 Two independent quantum networks successfully fused into one Nov 5, 2025 Routing photonic entanglement toward a quantum internet Sep 24, 2025 Device-independent method certifies genuinely entangled subspaces in photonic and superconducting systems Sep 23, 2025 Recommended for you Quantum sensor research advances the pursuit of dark matter 3 hours ago Silicon quantum processor detects single-qubit errors while preserving entanglement 18 hours ago Using light to probe fractional charges in a fractional Chern insulator Feb 16, 2026 Time crystals could become accurate and efficient timekeepers Feb 13, 2026 Hologram processing method boosts 3D image depth of focus fivefold Feb 13, 2026 Cutting down on quantum-dot crosstalk: Precise measurements expose a new challenge Feb 12, 2026 Load comments (0) Get Instant Summarized Text (Gist) A new protocol using active optical switches enables real-time, non-destructive verification of entangled quantum states by sampling only a subset for measurement, preserving the remaining states for use. This approach reduces resource demands, allows for device-independent certification, and enhances scalability, supporting the development of robust quantum computers and networks. This summary was automatically generated using LLM. Full disclaimer Let us know if there is a problem with our content Use this form if you have come across a typo, inaccuracy or would like to send an edit request for the content on this page. For general inquiries, please use our contact form. For general feedback, use the public comments section below (please adhere to guidelines). Please select the most appropriate category to facilitate processing of your request -- please select one -- Compliments / Critique Typos / Errors / Inaccuracies Edit / Removal request Your message to the editors Your email (optional, only if you'd like a response) Send Feedback Thank you for taking time to provide your feedback to the editors. Your feedback is important to us. However, we do not guarantee individual replies due to the high volume of messages. E-mail the story Optical switch protocol verifies entangled quantum states in real time without destroying them Your friend's email Your email I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more Your name Note Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose. The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Phys.org in any form. Your message Send Newsletter sign up Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties. Subscribe More information Privacy policy Donate and enjoy an ad-free experience We keep our content available to everyone. Consider supporting Science X's mission by getting a premium account. Remove ads Maybe later Medical Xpress Medical research advances and health news Tech Xplore The latest engineering, electronics and technology advances Science X The most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web Newsletters Subscribe Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox Follow us Top Home Search Mobile version Help FAQ About Contact Support us Science X Account Archive News wire Android app iOS app RSS feeds Push notification © Phys.org 2003 - 2026 powered by Science X Network Privacy policy Terms of use E-mail newsletter Subscribe Follow us