Quantum effect could power the next generation of battery-free devices Topics Week's top Latest news Unread news Subscribe Science X Account Sign In Sign in with Forget Password? Not a member? Sign up Learn more Nanotechnology Physics Earth Astronomy & Space Chemistry Biology Other Sciences Medicine Technology share this! Share Tweet Share Email Home Physics Condensed Matter Home Physics Quantum Physics February 24, 2026 Quantum effect could power the next generation of battery-free devices by Queensland University of Technology edited by Gaby Clark, 																								reviewed by Robert Egan Editors' notes This article has been reviewed according to Science X's editorial process and policies. Editors have highlighted the following attributes while ensuring the content's credibility: fact-checked trusted source proofread The GIST Add as preferred source Graphical abstract. Credit: Newton (2026). DOI: 10.1016/j.newton.2026.100410 A new study has revealed how tiny imperfections and vibrations inside a promising quantum material could be used to control an unusual quantum effect, opening new possibilities for smaller, faster, and more efficient energy-harvesting devices. The international team, led by Professor Dongchen Qi from the QUT School of Chemistry and Physics and Professor Xiao Renshaw Wang from Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, studied the mechanism governing the so-called nonlinear Hall effect (NLHE). The research is published in the journal Newton. Unlike the classical Hall effect, this quantum version allows alternating electrical signals, like those found in wireless or ambient energy sources, to be converted directly into usable direct current without the need for traditional diodes or bulky components. "The NLHE is a sophisticated quantum phenomenon in condensed matter physics where a voltage is generated perpendicular to an applied alternating current, even in the absence of a magnetic field," Professor Qi said. "This effect allows us to convert alternating signals straight into direct current, which is what's needed to power electronic devices. In principle, it means sensors or chips that could operate without batteries, drawing energy from their environment." The team studied a high-quality topological material known for its unusual electronic properties and found that the NLHE remains stable up to room temperature. The direction and strength of the generated voltage was also found to be controlled by temperature. At low temperatures, tiny imperfections in the material dominated the behavior. As the material warmed, natural vibrations of the crystal lattice took over, causing the electrical signal to flip direction. "Once you understand what's happening inside the material, you can design devices to take advantage of it," Professor Qi said. "That's when quantum effects stop being abstract and start becoming useful—supporting future applications ranging from self-powered sensors and wearable technology to ultra-fast components for next-generation wireless networks." More information Unraveling scattering contributions to the nonlinear Hall effect in topological insulator Bi2Te3, Newton (2026). DOI: 10.1016/j.newton.2026.100410. www.cell.com/newton/fulltext/S2950-6360(26)00012-5 Key concepts Electrical propertiesTransport phenomenaTopological materials Provided by Queensland University of Technology Citation: Quantum effect could power the next generation of battery-free devices (2026, February 24) retrieved 2 March 2026 from https://phys.org/news/2026-02-quantum-effect-power-generation-battery.html This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only. Explore further Tunable nonlinear Hall effect observed at room temperature in tellurium 0 shares Facebook Twitter Email Feedback to editors Trending Featured Last Comments Arabic document from 17th-century rubbish heap confirms existence of semi-legendary Nubian king Feb 28, 2026 0 Raincoat no longer waterproof? A textile scientist explains why—and how to fix it Feb 27, 2026 2 DOE climate report 'demonstrably incorrect', say scientists in new analysis Feb 27, 2026 0 Rising carbon dioxide levels now detected in human blood Feb 27, 2026 9 Luminescence dating confirms Roman-era gold mines in the Eastern Pyrenees Feb 27, 2026 0 El Nino may return in 2026 and make planet even hotter 1 hour ago Past climate change: First indicators show resilience in tropical life—up to 1.5°C 11 hours ago AI cracks Roman-era board game 13 hours ago Simulations show a path to 'ideal glass' with crystal-like entropy 14 hours ago Leopards adapted to South Africa's Cape so successfully that they're genetically unique 15 hours ago High-performance cell atlas workflow driven by manifold fitting 16 hours ago Enhanced rock weathering is not yet a reliable climate protection measure, say researchers 17 hours ago Nanoparticle system shows promise for delivering mRNA to prevent type 1 diabetes 19 hours ago The climate cost of staying cool: How AC could impact global warming by 2050 Feb 28, 2026 Svalbard polar bears gained fat despite rapid Barents Sea ice loss Feb 28, 2026 Relevant PhysicsForums posts Unexpected irregular reflection signal from a high-finesse cavity Jan 6, 2026 Momentum density of silicon valence band using bandstructure Dec 22, 2025 Monte Carlo simulation for the classical isotropic 3D Heisenberg model Dec 3, 2025 Time rondeau crystals, experimental observations Dec 1, 2025 Wave properties of a phonon Nov 28, 2025 Does direct/indirect band gap occur in solids other than semiconductors? Nov 17, 2025 More from Atomic and Condensed Matter Related Stories Tunable nonlinear Hall effect observed at room temperature in tellurium Sep 16, 2024 Physicists watch light drift in quantized steps for the first time Feb 24, 2026 Room-temperature nonreciprocal Hall effect could heat up future technology development Oct 24, 2024 Making mini-magnets that induce a quantum anomalous Hall effect Sep 12, 2022 Experiments show that edges are not needed to realize an unusual quantum effect Apr 18, 2023 Researchers discover tunable room-temperature nonlinear Hall effect in bismuth thin films Feb 28, 2024 Recommended for you Heavier hydrogen makes silicon T centers shine brighter for quantum networks Feb 28, 2026 Dynamical freezing can protect quantum information for near-cosmic timescales Feb 27, 2026 Cooling without gases: Molecular design brings solid-state cooling closer to reality Feb 27, 2026 Rydberg atoms detect clear signals from a handheld radio Feb 26, 2026 Energy loss triggers quantum thermal Hall-like effect at macroscopic scale Feb 26, 2026 Matching vibrations is all it takes to shut down superconductivity in a nearby crystal Feb 26, 2026 Load comments (0) Get Instant Summarized Text (Gist) The nonlinear Hall effect (NLHE) in a topological quantum material enables direct conversion of alternating electrical signals into direct current without magnetic fields or traditional diodes. The effect remains stable at room temperature, with voltage direction and strength tunable by temperature due to the interplay between material imperfections and lattice vibrations. This mechanism could enable battery-free, energy-harvesting devices. This summary was automatically generated using LLM. Full disclaimer Let us know if there is a problem with our content Use this form if you have come across a typo, inaccuracy or would like to send an edit request for the content on this page. For general inquiries, please use our contact form. For general feedback, use the public comments section below (please adhere to guidelines). Please select the most appropriate category to facilitate processing of your request -- please select one -- Compliments / Critique Typos / Errors / Inaccuracies Edit / Removal request Your message to the editors Your email (optional, only if you'd like a response) Send Feedback Thank you for taking time to provide your feedback to the editors. Your feedback is important to us. However, we do not guarantee individual replies due to the high volume of messages. E-mail the story Quantum effect could power the next generation of battery-free devices Your friend's email Your email I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more Your name Note Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose. The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Phys.org in any form. Your message Send Newsletter sign up Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties. Subscribe More information Privacy policy Donate and enjoy an ad-free experience We keep our content available to everyone. Consider supporting Science X's mission by getting a premium account. Remove ads Maybe later Medical Xpress Medical research advances and health news Tech Xplore The latest engineering, electronics and technology advances Science X The most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web Newsletters Subscribe Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox Follow us Top Home Search Mobile version Help FAQ About Contact Support us Science X Account Archive News wire Android app iOS app RSS feeds Push notification © Phys.org 2003 - 2026 powered by Science X Network Privacy policy Terms of use E-mail newsletter Subscribe Follow us