Illinois Quantum And Microelectronics Park Facilitates Immediate Ecosystem Entry For Future Tenants Skip to content Quantum Computing Quantum Algorithms Quantum Applications Quantum Computing Business News Quantum Research News Quantum Funding Landscape Quantum Features Quantum Cloud Quantum Internet Quantum Machine Learning Quantum Security Technology News Artificial Intelligence Metaverse Machine Learning Robotics Physics Technology Features Quantum Company Navigator Quantum Computing News, Deep Tech, Quantum Ecosystem Illinois Quantum and Microelectronics Park Facilitates Immediate Ecosystem Entry for Future Tenants March 3, 2026 by Quantum News The Illinois Quantum and Microelectronics Park (IQMP) is accelerating access to its resources through the newly announced On-Ramp program, a network of temporary locations designed to immediately integrate future tenants into the Illinois quantum ecosystem. Partnering with mHUB, the UChicago Science Incubator at Hyde Park Labs, and the Discovery Partners Institute, the IQMP will offer lab space, specialized equipment, including cryostats and lasers, and collaborative opportunities while its permanent facilities are under development. “Illinois continues to lead the quantum economy by removing barriers and accelerating opportunity,” said Governor JB Pritzker. Harley Johnson, Executive Director and CEO of the Illinois Quantum and Microelectronics Park, stated that “On-Ramp ensures that companies choosing to make the IQMP their home do not have to wait until our doors are open to begin building, hiring and collaborating here in Illinois.” This initiative builds upon existing quantum infrastructure, including the 2025 launch of Hyde Park Labs and a Bluefors lab at mHUB, reinforcing the state’s position as a global quantum destination. mHUB, UChicago & DPI Host IQMP’s On-Ramp Tenant Program This initiative allows companies to immediately engage with the Illinois quantum ecosystem, accessing crucial resources while the main park undergoes development. The mHUB site features four dedicated quantum labs equipped with specialized tools including cryostats, control electronics, lasers, and optical tables, alongside access to prototyping equipment and a collaborative community. The UChicago Science Incubator adds move-in ready lab space, optical suites, cryostat capacity, and a 124-mile fiber optic quantum loop, while DPI offers further resources. Early quantum tenants already utilizing the UChicago Science Incubator include memQ, Quantum Machines, Bluefors, and stac12. Renovations at mHUB, supported by grant funding from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, are slated for completion in Spring 2026, with the space ultimately transitioning to support future advanced research and development needs; “The On-Ramp program ensures that innovative companies can establish operations, create high-quality jobs, and begin collaborating with our world-class research institutions and industry partners right away,” said Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Director Kristin Richards. Companies currently participating in the On-Ramp program include IBM, Pasqal, Diraq, and Quantum Machines. Specialized Quantum Equipment Available at On-Ramp Locations This initiative allows companies slated to become tenants at the future IQMP to immediately access critical infrastructure within existing innovation hubs, bypassing the delays inherent in waiting for new construction. Beyond the equipment, tenants benefit from technical support, access to mHUB’s broader prototyping capabilities, and integration into a collaborative entrepreneurial community. Among the initial participants are industry leaders like IBM and Pasqal, alongside Diraq and Quantum Machines, all of whom will leverage these temporary locations to foster collaboration and advance research. Illinois continues to lead the quantum economy by removing barriers and accelerating opportunity. Governor JB Pritzker Source: https://iqmp.org/ Tags: Cryostats Illinois Quantum Park mHub microelectronics quantum technology Quantum News There is so much happening right now in the field of technology, whether AI or the march of robots. Adrian is an expert on how technology can be transformative, especially frontier technologies. But Quantum occupies a special space. Quite literally a special space. A Hilbert space infact, haha! Here I try to provide some of the news that is considered breaking news in the Quantum Computing and Quantum tech space. Latest Posts by Quantum News: Bluefors Introduces Expandable Platform Supporting High Qubit Count Quantum Hardware March 3, 2026 University of Turku Researchers Detail Multiple Forms of Quantum Memory March 3, 2026 Quantum Computing Inc. Opens Manufacturing Facility and Raises $1.5 Billion in 2025 March 3, 2026 Post navigation Previous Article XtalPi AI and Robotics Aid Advancement of CMT and VWM TherapyNext Article Quantum Computing Inc. Opens Manufacturing Facility and Raises $1.5 Billion in 2025 Quantum Computing News Quantum Zeitgeist covers the business, science and technology of quantum computing. Founded in 2018, we publish daily news, company analysis and original features for researchers, investors and technology leaders. Explore over 940 quantum companies across 47 countries in our Quantum Navigator. [Ad] The classic Textbook for learning Quantum Programming [Ad] Pre-Order This New Book On Quantum Programming In Depth [Ad] Quantum Computing Quantum Applications Quantum Books Quantum Computing Courses Quantum Machine Learning Quantum Jobs Quantum Programming Quantum Computing Quantum Cloud Quantum Landscape Quantum Cryptography Quantum Finance Quantum Hardware Quantum Internet Quantum Investment Technology Artificial Intelligence Analog Computing Deep Tech Emerging Technology High Performance Computing Machine Learning Space Science Robotics About Us Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Contact Us Disclaimer: All material, including information from or attributed to Quantum Zeitgeist or individual authors of content on this website, has been obtained from sources believed to be accurate as of the date of publication. However, Quantum Zeitgeist makes no warranty of the accuracy or completeness of the information and Quantum Zeitgeist does not assume any responsibility for its accuracy, efficacy, or use. Any information on the website obtained by Quantum Zeitgeist from third parties has not been reviewed for accuracy. Copyright 2019 to 2025 The Quantum Zeitgeist website is owned and operated by Hadamard LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company.