Computing with many encoded logical qubits beyond break-even
Shival Dasu,1,∗Matthew DeCross,1,∗Andrew Y. Guo,1Ali Lavasani,1Jan Behrends,2Asmae Benhemou,3
Yi-Hsiang Chen,1Karl Mayer,1Chris N. Self,2Selwyn Simsek,3Basudha Srivastava,2M.S. Allman,1
Jake Arkinstall,2Justin G. Bohnet,1Nathaniel Q. Burdick,4J.P. Campora III,1Alex Chernoguzov,1
Samuel F. Cooper,1Robert D. Delaney,1Joan M. Dreiling,1Brian Estey,1Caroline Figgatt,1Cameron
Foltz,1John P. Gaebler,1Alex Hall,1Craig A. Holliman,5Ali A. Husain,4Akhil Isanaka,1Colin J.
Kennedy,1Yuga Kodama,5Nikhil Kotibhaskar,3Nathan K. Lysne,5Ivaylo S. Madjarov,1Michael Mills,1
Alistair R. Milne,3Brian Neyenhuis,1Annie J. Park,1Anthony Ransford,1Adam P. Reed,1Steven J.
Sanders,1Charles H. Baldwin,1David Hayes,1Ben Criger,2Andrew C. Potter,1and David Amaro3
1Quantinuum, Broomfield, CO 80021, USA
2Quantinuum, Terrington House, Cambridge, CB2 1NL, UK
3Quantinuum, Partnership House, Carlisle Place, London, SW1P 1BX, UK
4Quantinuum, Brooklyn Park, MN 55422, USA
5Quantinuum K.K., Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan
(Dated: February 26, 2026)
High-rate quantum error correcting (QEC) codes encode many logical qubits in a given number of
physical qubits, making them promising candidates for quantum computation. Implementing high-
rate codes at a scale that both frustrates classical computing and improves performance by encoding
requires both high fidelity gates and long-range qubit connectivity—both of which are offered by
trapped-ion quantum computers. Here, we demonstrate computations that outperform their un-
encoded counterparts in the high-rateJk+ 2, k,2Kiceberg quantum error detecting (QED) and
J(k2+ 2)(k 1+ 2), k 2k1,4Ktwo-level concatenated iceberg QEC codes, using the 98-qubit Quantin-
uum Helios trapped-ion quantum processor. Utilizing new gadgets for encoded operations, we
realize this “beyond break-even” performance with reasonable postselection rates across a range of
fault-tolerant (FT) and partially-fault-tolerant (pFT) component and application benchmarks with
between 48 and 94 logical qubits. These benchmarks include FT state preparation and measurement,
QEC cycle benchmarking, logical gate benchmarking, GHZ state preparation, and a pFT quantum
simulation of the three-dimensionalXYmodel of quantum magnetism. Additionally, we illustrate
that postselection rates can be suppressed by increasing the code distance via concatenation. Our
results represent state-of-the-art logical component and state fidelities and provide evidence that
high-rate QED/QEC codes are viable on contemporary quantum computers for near-term beyond-
classical-scale computation.
Achieving high fidelity in lengthy quantum computa-
tions necessary for most practical applications requires
encoding logical qubits into a larger number of physical
qubits in a quantum code to suppress errors. Computa-
tion and error correction with encoded logical qubits adds
space (memory) and time (circuit complexity) overheads,
that, so far, have limited experimental implementations
on existing quantum hardware to modest numbers of log-
ical qubits that do not yet challenge the limits of classical
computation.
The arbitrary qubit connectivity available in trapped-
ion and neutral atom devices enables a variety of geomet-
rically non-local codes with substantially reduced over-
heads [1–3]. As an extreme example, iceberg quantum
error-detection (QED) codes [4–6] require only two addi-
tional physical qubits to encode an arbitrary number of
logical qubits capable of detecting any single-qubit error.
In this work, we introduce a family of concatenated ice-
berg codes that generalize many-hypercubes codes [7] to
variable code block sizes to achieve asymptotically high
∗These authors contributed equally.encoding rates and code distances [2]. Using the 98-qubit
Quantinuum Helios trapped-ion quantum processor [8]
(see Methods A for hardware details), we implement ice-
berg codes at the first and second levels of concatenation,
respectively forming QED and quantum error correction
(QEC) codes of distancesd= 2 and 4.
While arbitrary error suppression ultimately requires
fully fault-tolerant (FT) operation, there is a significant
leap in complexity and scale of computation before FT al-
gorithms can outperform unencoded ones. To bridge this
gap, partially fault-tolerant (pFT) techniques [9, 10] that
can immediately improve upon unencoded performance
and extend the practical reach of quantum computers can
be useful, even if these techniques do not scale efficiently
to asymptotically large circuits. In Quantinuum trapped-
ion quantum processors, a practical pFT scheme consists
in implementing arbitrary-angle logical Pauli rotations
via continuously-parameterized native two-qubit Pauli
rotations to avoid the sizable cost of FT non-Clifford gate
synthesis [11, 12].
This work reports encoded (“logical”) vs. unencoded
(“physical”) performance results across a range of FT
and pFT techniques, including experiments with up to
94 logical qubits in iceberg QED codes, and up to 48arXiv:2602.22211v1  [quant-ph]  25 Feb 2026

2
logical qubits in concatenated iceberg QEC codes.
For iceberg QED codes, we introduce improved FT
initialization, syndrome extraction, and readout gadgets,
as well as new FT and pFT gates, that develop iceberg
codes as a practical tool for beyond-classical-scale quan-
tum computation. We show that encoded algorithms
can outperform their unencoded counterparts, that is,
demonstratebeyond break-evenperformance, on a variety
of logical benchmarks including state preparation-and-
measurement (SPAM) experiments, cycle benchmarking
of logical gates, preparation of GHZ states, and the dy-
namics of the three-dimensionalXYmodel relevant to
simulation of magnetic materials.
For concatenated iceberg QEC codes, we similarly in-
troduce improvements to initialization, QEC, and en-
tangling gadgets, demonstrating beyond break-even per-
formance on SPAM experiments and the preparation of
GHZ states. We benchmark the performance of the
newly introduced QEC cycle and find below pseudo-
threshold performance for theJ80,48,4Kcode. Addi-
tionally, we find improved QEC acceptance rates for the
J16,4,4Kcode compared to analogous QED acceptance
rates for theJ4,2,2Kcode at comparable fidelity, allow-
ing for longer FT computations to be performed at higher
levels of concatenation. Postselecting out detectable, but
not correctable, weight-d/2 faults in even-distance codes
should not be misconstrued as a non-scalable technique,
since, below threshold, both the error rate and the posts-
election overheads are exponentially suppressed with in-
creasing code distance.
Concatenated Iceberg Codes:Iceberg codes,I k, are
low-overhead quantum error-detecting (QED) codes that
encode an even number,k, of logical qubits at code dis-
tanced= 2 using only two additional qubits for a total
ofn=k+ 2 physical qubits [4–6]. The stabilizer gen-
eratorsS XandS Zof an iceberg code are global Pauli
products:S X/Z =Qn−1
j=0(X/Z) j. Any Pauli operator
containing an even number ofX’s andZ’s is a logical
operator. These can be generated by Xj=X 0Xjand
Zj=ZjZk+1for 1≤j≤k. Here we index physical qubit
operators by subscripts with range [n]≡ {0,1, . . . n−1},
and logical operators with an overline and superscripts
with range{1,2, . . . k}, and use index-raising to denote
encoding qubits into the logical qubits of a code.
Iceberg QED codes can be promoted to QEC codes
using concatenation (see, e.g. Ref. [7]), which takes as
input two iceberg codes,I k2andI k1, and outputs a code,
Ik2◦ Ik1, with parametersJn 2n1, k2k1, d2d1K. This pro-
cedure can be visualized as in Fig. 1a by arranging the
physical qubits into ann 1×n2grid with Pauli-XandZ
operators labeledX i,jandZ i,j(i∈[n 1], j∈[n 2]) respec-
tively. The qubits in each row are encoded intoI k1codes
and thenI k2codes are encoded on each of thek 1logical
qubit columns. TheXandZstabilizers of the concate-
nated code consist of PauliXorZproducts along rows
(the stabilizers of theI k1codes) and pairs of columns
(the stabilizers of the encodedI k2codes), and the Xand
Zlogical operators are rectangles of physicalXorZop-erators (see Fig. 1a). This concatenation procedure can
be straightforwardly iterated to higher levels to achieve
larger distances. In the following, we implement only the
first two concatenation levels for iceberg codes, explor-
ing a variety of iceberg QED codes with up to 94 logical
qubits and concatenated iceberg QEC codes with up to
48 logical qubits (the largest for which a full QEC cycle
can be executed on Helios).
Encoding and readout:Encoding physical qubits into
logical qubits is an essential first step for FT computa-
tion. To this end, we introduce and benchmark improved
encoding circuits and logical readout protocols for iceberg
codes with and without concatenation.
The logical zero state of the iceberg codeI k,|0⟩⊗k, is
a GHZ state|GHZ n⟩on all physical qubits [6]. In the
d= 4 concatenated iceberg code, the logical zero state
|0⟩⊗k1k2is the tensor product of the logical GHZ states
over eachI k2logical qubit column:| GHZ k2⟩⊗k1.To pre-
pare thed= 2 logical zero state, a physical GHZ state
preparation circuit can be used, which starts with a|+⟩
state and subsequently incorporates more qubits via a
tree of CX gates. To prepare thed= 4 logical zero state,
we follow a similar procedure replacing physical qubits
with iceberg codes. Starting with a| ¯+⟩⊗k1Ik1block,
other blocks are incorporated via a tree of transversal
logical CX gates. In both cases,Xerrors during the cir-
cuit can cascade through the CX gates, causing a high-
weight error on the output. To ensure fault-tolerance,
we catch these errors by measuringZZoperators at the
ends of certain pairs of tree branches [7]. In thed= 2
case, we introduce a FT state preparation and measure-
ment (SPAM) circuit using a log-depth tree, which uses
up ton/4 ancilla qubits and up ton/2 additional CX
gates. In thed= 4 case, we introduce a two-branch cir-
cuit, with a modified tree structure and additional error-
checking to catch additional errors which cannot occur in
thed= 2 case. We use repeat-until-success (RUS), deco-
herence free subspace (DFS) techniques, and dynamical
decoupling (DD) to increase acceptance rates and sup-
press errors in somed= 2 encoding and QED gadgets
throughout this work (the third only forXYmodel simu-
lations as well as SPAM experiments extractingS X); for
additional details, see Supplementary Information (SI)
Sec. I. In some SPAM experiments, we only extract one
syndrome destructively (S Z), in contrast to the final syn-
drome measurement proposed in Refs. [6, 11].
We benchmark the performance of fault-tolerantly
preparing 48 logical qubits in thed= 2 andd= 4 cases
in theI 48andI 8◦ I6codes, respectively (see Fig. 1b,
c, SI. Sec. II). Both thed= 2 case andd= 4 case
achieve beyond-break-even performance compared to the
physical SPAM error on Helios [8] by at least an order
of magnitude, withd= 4 exhibiting improved fidelities
and acceptance rates compared tod= 2, demonstrat-
ing the additional error-correction power of the concate-
nated QEC codes compared to their QED counterparts.
In some experiments, we use the leakage-heralded mea-
surement available on Helios (Methods A) and compare

3
FIG. 1.Iceberg codes and their concatenation (a)Grid layout depicting stabilizers and logical operators of the
I8◦ I6code.(b)SPAM infidelity per logical qubit across experiments, some using leakage-heralded measurement and/or
non-destructive extraction ofS X. Note that theI 8◦I6SPAM experiment recorded no logical errors, bounding the infidelity as
indicated in the rightmost column.(c)Acceptance rates across each SPAM experiment. When leakage-heralded measurement
is used, the leakage acceptance rate is outlined (black, dashed).(d)The QEC cycle for theI 8◦ I6code; Z stabilizer syndrome
extraction is shown, and is followed by extraction of theXstabilizers. EDZ denotesd= 2 Bell-pair syndrome extraction.(e)
Fidelity and acceptance rate (AR) as a function of number of QEC/SE cycles for (concatenated) iceberg codes for different
logical basis input states. All uncertainties reported through this work denote 68% Wilson confidence intervals unless otherwise
noted, with point estimates corresponding to empirical observations. Acceptance and fidelity curves are obtained from fitting
the data to exponential decays using maximum likelihood estimation. Fit values are given in Methods B.
to the physical leakage-heralded measurement error cor-
respondingly.
Syndrome Extraction and QEC:Once encoded,
quantum error detection and/or correction are required
to prevent physical errors from spreading into logical
ones. Here, we introduce new methods for performing
(QEC) QED on (concatenated) iceberg codes, which are
optimized to Helios. For thed= 2 case, both mid-circuit
syndrome extraction (SE) and readout of the logical state
are performed by extending the protocol [11] to use GHZ
states in theXorZbasis to improve parallelization of
gates (shown later in Fig. 3b; see also SI Sec. III). We
use four-qubit GHZ states that allow syndrome extrac-
tion gates to be parallelized in groups of 8, matching the
number of gate zones in Helios [8].
For concatenated iceberg codes, previous work on
closely-related many-hypercubes codes [7, 13] proposed
using Knill-style QEC that involves preparing two ancil-
lary logical code blocks per QEC cycle, incurring signifi-
cant spacetime overhead to the QEC cycle. Here, we in-
stead introduce a lower-overhead scheme that generalizesthed= 2 QEC protocol (with a Bell pair of ancilla) by
replacing the physical ancilla qubits in that scheme with
lower-concatenation-leveld= 2 iceberg code blocks, fol-
lowed by regulard= 2 syndrome extraction on each of
the lower-levelI 6blocks. For theI 8◦I6code, the result-
ing circuit, shown in Fig. 1d, uses only 18 physical an-
cilla qubits, and has depth 18, representing a substantial
reduction in the spacetime overhead compared to Knill-
Style QEC. The QEC cycle in this work is similar to the
improvement proposed in Ref. [14], a follow-up to Ref. [7]
which appeared during the writing of this manuscript for
a subsystem version of concatenated iceberg codes. The
physical qubit overhead in Ref. [14] for the subsystem
code would be the same, with the additional advantage
of not requiring the lower-level ancilla to be encoded for
the extraction of either high- or low- level stabilizers.
Conversely, the QEC cycle and decoder introduced here
is fault-tolerant for circuit-level noise as discussed in SI
Sec. IV, whereas the QEC cycle in Ref. [14] was intro-
duced only for phenomenological noise.
Implementing this procedure for theI 8◦ I6concate-

4
nated iceberg code with 48 logical qubits, we observe an
average QEC-cycle infidelity per logical qubit (see Meth-
ods B) upper-bounded by 4×10−5with no logical errors
recorded in five thousand shots in each basis, and an
acceptance rate (AR) of 0.62(2) when postselecting out
uncorrectable errors. Because leakage-heralded measure
as well as DD were used in all logical memory experi-
ments, a natural point of comparison for this encoded
logical memory experiment is the (non-leakage compo-
nent of the) physical linear memory error accrued over
a depth-1 time: 1.1(3)×10−4([8], Methods B). By this
comparison, QEC improves the memory error over that
for unencoded physical qubits, indicating that the hard-
ware is below the pseudo-threshold for thisd= 4 con-
catenated iceberg code.
Next, we examine the effect of increasing the code dis-
tance on the logical memory performance. To this end,
we shift our focus to smaller (concatenated) iceberg codes
with 4 logical qubits:I 2◦ I2or two copies ofI 2. The
higher AR per QEC cycle of these smaller codes allow
us to explore sequences with many repeated rounds of
QEC (Fig. 1e) without a prohibitively high shot over-
head. We observe that increasing the distance from 2 to
4 by concatenation significantly boosts the AR (averaged
over both initial states) from 0.945(2) to 0.972+1
−2. The
infidelities,<4×10−5and 2+8
−2×10−5for distances 2 and
4 respectively, are indistinguishable up to statistical un-
certainty. As the discard rate is several orders of magni-
tude higher than the logical error rate, this demonstrates
that the length of a FT computation can be scaled up by
increasing the code distance through concatenation.
Benchmarking a universal logical gate set:Un-
like physical benchmarking, logical gate benchmarking
must incorporate the effects of syndrome extraction,
state preparation, and readout at the encoded level.
Here, we perform logical gate benchmarking to esti-
mate the average fidelity of a universal logical gate
set that entangles logical qubits within or betweenI 4
code block(s), demonstrating break-even performance
over physical gates. We employ a logical version of
cycle benchmarking (CB) [15, 16] (see Methods C, SI
Sec. V), which involves interleaving repeated layers of
a chosen multi-qubit Clifford operation (“cycle”) with
random Pauli gates. Fitting the (exponential) decay of
the expectation value of a randomly sampled Pauli ob-
servable vs. depth—after postselecting via syndrome ex-
traction rounds interspersed every 8 logical gates (chosen
to roughly optimize gate performance)—extracts an esti-
mate of the Pauli fidelity, which can be used to compute
the fidelity of the logical gate.
Using this approach, we benchmark the following uni-
versal pFT gate set (Fig. 2a, see also SI Sec. VI) con-
sisting of: non-FT intra- and inter-code blockU ZZ(θ) =
e−iθ
2ZZ[17], as well as a FT logical FANOUT gate. The
latter implements a global logical parity flipQ
iXion all
logical qubits in one code block, controlled by a logical
qubit in another code block. The resulting average log-ical gate infidelities, all between (1.0−1.2)×10−4, are
summarized in Fig. 2b. Crucially, these logical fidelities
significantly outperform the bare physical two-qubit gate
errors of∼8×10−4on Helios [8], not to mention the im-
plied two-qubit gate fidelities ˜ϵ 2Q∼2×10−3obtained
from full-circuit benchmarks that include other substan-
tial overheads.
Preparing large logical entangled states:We now
benchmark the high-fidelity preparation of entangled re-
source states of many logical qubits, specifically, GHZ
states, in various sizes and combinations of iceberg codes.
Details of the unencoded GHZ state fidelity protocol can
be found in SI Sec. VII. The logical GHZ state for a sin-
gleI kcode block factorizes into a physical GHZ state on
physical qubits 1, . . . kand a Bell pair on qubits 0, k+ 1,
which can be directly prepared by a small modification of
the usual encoding circuit (SI Sec. VIII). To prepare logi-
cal GHZ states spanning multiple iceberg code blocks, we
initialize a single code block in a logical GHZ state, and
apply a log-depth tree of logical FANOUT gates (Fig. 2c)
to extend the GHZ state across other code blocks that
were initialized to| ¯0⟩⊗k. This approach saves many phys-
ical 2Q gates compared to the standard implementation
using transversal CX gates. To benchmark the resulting
GHZ state fidelity in both cases, we perform simultane-
ous (single-shot) FT measurements of the logical GHZ
stabilizers ( ¯Zi¯Zi+1andQ
i¯Xi) (see Methods D).
To explore the effects of code concatenation, we de-
velop a FT GHZ state preparation protocol on a concate-
nated iceberg code block that generalizes more straight-
forwardly to higher concatenation levels. The protocol
(Fig. 2d) uses level-1I k1ancilla prepared in a logical
GHZ state as described above, to fault-tolerantly mea-
sure the level-2 logical GHZ stabilizerQ
i,jXi,j(defined
in Methods D). To ensure robustness to up to two mea-
surement errors the logical GHZ stabilizer measurement
is performed twice. Additionally, theX, Zstabilizers and
Zobservables of the level-1 GHZ state are extracted,
which allows us to correct one error occurring anywhere
in the fulld= 4 protocol (see Methods D for further de-
tails). SI Sec. IX contains simulations of fault tolerance
and a more detailed analysis.
Results for logical GHZ state (in)fidelity and accep-
tance rates are displayed in Fig. 2e and reported in SI
Sec. VIII forI 48,I60, andI 94codes, theI 8◦I6code, and
fork= 48,60 logical qubits distributed amongI 4code
blocks. Across the board, encoding yields large improve-
ments to logical GHZ state fidelity with greater gains
coming from the improved fault-tolerance of theI 4code
blocks and theI 8◦ I6code. In particular, we measure
∼95% fidelity in theI 94code and recorded no logical er-
rors in theI 8◦ I6and leakage-heraldedk= 60,I 4codes
over several thousand shots.
Computing:Finally, we put these ingredients together
for an application-level benchmark of the pFT operation
of an iceberg code, inspired by magnetic materials sim-
ulation. The iceberg code is particularly well-tailored to
the simulation of quantum magnetism with Hamiltonians

5
FIG. 2.Logical gate benchmarking and GHZ state preparation (a)Circuit gadgets for an inter-blockU ZZgate and the
FANOUT gate. Heret=q 0is the “top” qubit andb=q n−1is the “bottom” qubit on each code block with indices labeling the
code block.(b)Infidelity per logical gate for each gate considered in the main text, reported alongside the physicalU ZZ(π/2)
fidelity from [8], both including (˜ϵ 2Q) and excluding (2QRB) transport overheads.(c)Preparing a GHZ state distributed over
manyI 4code blocks using the log-depth FANOUT tree, represented in shorthand by controlled gates with stars, followed by
extraction of theQ
iXiGHZ stabilizer where red (purple) gates couple to qubitq 0(q5) alone on each block.(d)GHZ state
preparation in theI 8◦ I6code as described in the text.(e)GHZ infidelity and acceptances across the various experiments.
Note that theI 8◦ I6(k= 48) and leakage-heralded 15× I 4(k= 60) experiments both recorded no errors.
of the formH=P
α∈x,y,zP
i,jJα
i,jσα
iσα
j, whose terms
are each logical operators that are simple to implement in
a pFT manner. Trotterized evolution under such Hamil-
tonians can be implemented with no extra overhead in an
Ikcode using Helios’ native physical gate set. This direct
implementation of logical gates is not FT—a single 2Q
gate error with Pauli componentsXX,Y Y, orZZleads
to a logical error. However, due to bias in the native
2Q gate errors, these dangerous errors occur with prob-
ability∼10×lower than other detectable errors [18, 19].
This pFT computation scheme mixing FT state prepara-
tion, syndrome extraction, and measurement with non-
FT Hamiltonian simulation gates enables a significant fi-
delity improvement over unencoded simulations of quan-
tum computations at a scale that challenges classical sim-
ulation.
To benchmark this pFT scheme, we implement a log-
ical version of the standard mirror-benchmarking (MB)
protocol [20–22], that measures the survival probability
P(t) =|⟨ψ 0|U(t
2)†U(t
2)|ψ0⟩|2, whereU(t
2) =e−iHt/2is
implemented bys/2 Trotter steps with size ∆t=t/s
approximating the magnetic dynamics, and|ψ 0⟩is a ref-
erence state. This protocol provides a sample-efficientway to estimate the global fidelity of time evolution for
timet, without comparing to non-scalable classical sim-
ulations. Specifically, we implement logical MB for a
three-dimensional (3D) antiferromagnet with an easy-
plane anisotropy to the spin-exchange, described by the
paradigmaticXY-model Hamiltonian:
Hxz=X
⟨ij⟩hij=X
⟨ij⟩J(X iXj+ZiZj).
where⟨ij⟩denote nearest neighbors on a 3D cubic lattice
with dimensions 4×4×4, and periodic boundary condi-
tions. Here, we have chosen the easy-plane anisotropy to
lie in thexzplane (rather than the conventionalxyplane)
for convenience of implementation in the iceberg code.
We choose to study a 3Dmodel to connect to realistic
bulk materials, showcase the flexible programmability of
Helios’ QCCD architecture in implementing models of ar-
bitrary dimension, and because this high-dimensional ge-
ometry offers a stronger challenge to competing classical
simulation methods for forward time evolution circuits.
We encode this system into a singleI 64iceberg code
block, choosing a ferromagnetically polarized initial state

6
……
……… …
−1
=
FIG. 3.Mirror benchmarking of encoded Hamiltonian simulation (a)The natural edge-6-coloring of the 4×4×4
periodic cubic lattice. Edges connecting the periodic boundaries are omitted for visual clarity, but the corresponding gates are
included in the circuits executed.(b)Logical mirror benchmarking circuits used to assess the fidelity of Hamiltonian simulation.
For the purposes of illustration, the circuit shown uses anI 10code with dynamics governed by a 6-regular graph on 10 vertices.
(c)Logical gates implementing the first-order Trotter circuit depicted in (b). In the “reverse” half of the circuit, the inverse
gates (dashed) are used in the opposite order.(d)Fidelity estimate and acceptance rate as a function of total Trotter steps
in the full mirrored circuit. The fidelity estimate inset displays the last three points on a log scale for clarity. Each heuristic
depolarizing error model (dashed) is labeled with its corresponding effective 2Q error rate ˜ϵ 2Q(see Methods A, SI Sec. XI).
|ψ0⟩=| ¯0⟩⊗64. The forward dynamics is implemented
vias/2 first-order Trotter steps:U(s∆t/2)≈U 1(∆t)s/2,
whereU 1(∆t) =Q
CQ
⟨ij⟩∈Ce−ihij∆tandClabels the
6 different sets of non-overlapping bonds indicated by
the colorings shown in Fig. 3a. We choose a step size
J∆t=π/8 that is large enough to rapidly generate en-
tanglement in a small number of Trotter steps, but small
enough to be far from the Clifford limit of the system.
Gates are Pauli-twirled using real-time random number
generation [23] to avoid coherent cancellation of errors. A
single SE round is inserted between the forward (U) and
backward (U†) time evolutions. The MB protocol con-
cludes withZ-basis measurements of all physical qubits,
from which we reconstruct both the survival probability
andZ-stabilizers. The data is postselected on detecting
no errors in the mid-circuit SE or final measurement.
The resulting survival probability and acceptance rates
for MB sequences of up tos= 10 total Trotter steps are
shown in Fig. 3d for both unencoded and iceberg QED
encoded, with and without postselection on detecting
leakage outside of the qubit subspace of any of thek+ 2
data qubits. From exponential-decay fits to the survivalprobability versus logical gate number, we also extract
an effective per-gate error ˜ϵ 2Q, which reflects a combina-
tion of gate errors and memory errors (see Methods A
for details and SI Sec. X, XI for preliminary experimen-
tal results and more data). We observe that the effective
error rate ˜ϵ 2Qis reduced≈30% by encoding in the ice-
berg code, at the expense of a reasonable increase in shot
count incurred by postselecting out detected errors. We
note that obtaining high global state fidelity may be an
overly conservative standard for quantum simulation ap-
plications that typically require the less stringent task of
approximating local correlation functions.
While the MB protocol itself is trivial to simulate
classically, for chaotic many-body Hamiltonians such as
Hxz, it serves as a proxy for the global state fidelity for
simulating a purely forward-time-evolved initial state:
U(s∆t)|0⟩. We anticipate that the pure forward time
evolution may be difficult—if at all possible—to simu-
late classically, due to the large number of logical qubits
(which renders direct state-vector simulation infeasible),
high dimensionality, periodic boundary conditions, and
rapid entanglement spreading (all of which challenge
tensor-network methods).

7
Outlook:We demonstrate computations below break-
even on many logical qubits encoded in iceberg codes
and their concatenations on Quantinuum Helios. In
particular, the favorable performance and overhead of
the pFT simulation of theXYmodel with 64 logical
qubits at distance-2 motivates extending this approach to
more demanding condensed-matter models, such as the
Fermi–Hubbard or Kitaev models, of both academic and
industrial relevance. When higher algorithmic fidelity or
acceptance rates are required, fully FT, below-threshold
protocols on higher-distance codes become necessary [24].
We observe in this work that increasing the distance via
concatenation already enhances acceptance rates without
degrading fidelity.
We further present alternative fault-tolerant resource-
state preparation schemes (SI Sec. XII) based on re-
peated stabilizer measurements, flag-at-origin [25], and
an automatically generated flag circuit—the latter out-
performing the gadgets of [7] in depolarizing simulations.
Decoding with look-up tables derived from circuit-level
simulations is explored in SI Sec. XIII. They can pro-
vide a first layer of a hierarchical decoding pipeline,
with other layers potentially leveraging the concatenated
structure of iceberg codes [26]. These codes addition-
ally offer a low-overhead, naturally global logical gate
set—including Clifford gates via automorphisms [27] and
global magic-state preparation [28] (as an alternative to
distillation [29])—that warrants further investigation.
These creative developments, together with advances
in quantum architectures that offer arbitrary connectiv-
ity, including neutral-atom [30] and trapped-ion [8] plat-
forms, are rapidly bringing fault-tolerant quantum com-
putation with many logical qubits within reach.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We acknowledge the entire Quantinuum team for innu-
merable contributions towards the design and operation
of the Helios quantum computer, and we acknowledge
Honeywell for fabricating the trap used in this experi-
ment. We thank Eli Chertkov, Michael Foss-Feig, Reza
Haghshenas, Tyler LeBlond, Setso Metodi, Ciar´ an Ryan-
Anderson, Kartik Singhal, and David Stephen for useful
discussions.
AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
S.D., M.D., C.H.B., D.H., B.C., A.C.P., and D.A. de-
vised the project and the protocol implementations. S.D.
devised the distance-4 QEC cycle, with improvements
from B.C., and decoder as well as distance-4 GHZ prepa-
ration protocol and developed code for and executed all
distance-4 experiments and distance-2 syndrome extrac-
tion experiments. M.D. devised the GHZ-based distance-
2 syndrome extraction as well as the FT FANOUT gate
and its use in the GHZ experiments, and developed codefor and executed distance-2 SPAM, GHZ state prepa-
ration, andXYmodel experiments. A.Y.G. developed
code for and executed the logical gate benchmarking ex-
periments. Y.-H. C. developed code for and executed the
unencoded GHZ state preparation experiments. A.L.,
J.B., A.B., C.N.S., S.S., and B.S. performed additional
simulations, QEC algorithm design, and circuit code de-
velopment. A.Y.G., Y.-H. C., K.M., and C.H.B. devel-
oped the logical gate benchmarking analysis. M.S.A.,
J.A., J.G.B., N.Q.B., J.P.C. III, A.C., S.F.C., R.D.D.,
J.M.D., B.E., Car.F., Cam.F., J.P.G., A.H., C.A.H.,
A.A.H., A.I., C.J.K., Y.K., N.K., N.K.L., I.S.M., M.M.,
A.R.M., B.N., A.J.P., A.R., A.P.R., and S.J.S. designed,
optimized, operated, and maintained the Helios hardware
and software stack. D.A. directed the overall project as
lead principal investigator. S.D., M.D., A.Y.G., A.L.,
J.B., A.B., Y.-H. C., S.S., N.Q.B., A.R., C.H.B., D.H.,
B.C., A.C.P., and D.A. contributed to the writing and
editing of the manuscript.
COMPETING INTERESTS
The authors declare no competing interests.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Supplementary Information is available for this paper.
Correspondence and requests for materials should be ad-
dressed to David Amaro, david.amaro@quantinuum.com.
METHODS
A. Hardware specifications
Helios is a 98-qubit trapped-ion quantum processor
with137Ba+hyperfine qubits that implements the quan-
tum charge-coupled device (QCCD) architecture intro-
duced in Refs. [31, 32], first realized in Ref. [33] with
171Yb+qubits. Here we present an abbreviated summary
of the technical specifications of the processor presented
in Ref. [8]. Qubit ions, along with their associated sym-
pathetic coolant ions, are confined by the electromagnetic
field generated by RF electrodes and physically trans-
ported around the ion trap by additional DC electrodes.
The Helios architecture stores qubits in a large ring, sorts
them by transport around the ring and through an X-
junction [34] into an intermediate “cache” region, and
subsequently further transports the qubits into one of two
“legs” for cooling, quantum logic operations and tempo-
rary storage (see Ref. [8], Figs. 1 and 2). Enabled by a
new classical control system and software stack, Helios
implements real-time compilation of program operations
(using the Guppy programming language [23]) into phys-
ical hardware commands on the device. This permits

8
realization of many new algorithmic primitives, includ-
ing dynamic allocation of qubits, classical control flow
such as conditional statements and loops, early condi-
tional termination of programs, and remote procedure
calls to an external server that can perform arbitrary
classical computations and return information needed for
on-the-fly decisions about quantum logic (“gate stream-
ing”, demonstrated in Refs. [35], [36]).
All primitive quantum logic operations (measure-
ments, resets, and gates) on Helios are performed
via interactions that are mediated by several lasers
of different frequencies delivered to the QPU via free
space; we refer the reader to Sec. IIB of Ref. [8]
for further details. Qubits on Helios are initialized
into the|0⟩state. Arbitrary one-qubit (1Q) gat-
ing operations are decomposed by the compiler into
U1Q(θ, ϕ) = exp 
−iθ
2(cos(ϕ)X+ sin(ϕ)Y)
physical
gates andR Z(θ) = exp 
−iθ
2Z
gates that are imple-
mented fully in software as phase updates. The two-
qubit (2Q) gate is mediated by the Mølmer-Sørensen in-
teraction made phase-insensitive via wrapper pulses and
implementsU ZZ(θ) = exp 
−iθ
2ZZ
[33, 37], whereθis
a user-specified angle and the gate error scales linearly
with angle up to the maximal entanglerθ=π/2 [18].
Several types of measurements are available on Helios;
in addition to the standard (possibly mid-circuit) mea-
surement of isolated qubits, requests for simultaneous
measurement of batches of qubits can trigger compilation
into a “protected” measurement operation that reduces
crosstalk. Furthermore, users can request a ternary-
valued measurement that may return 2 to herald that
the measured qubit has leaked outside the qubit sub-
space, at the expense of extra measurement error since
this scheme requires several additional optical pulses.
The leakage-heralded measurement may similarly be pro-
tected if ternary measurements are requested on batches
of qubits simultaneously.
The infidelities associated to each of these quantum
logic operations are reported in Table II of Ref. [8]. For
self-contained comparisons to the logical benchmarks in
this work, we note in particular that the SPAM error
associated to the standard measurement was measured
atp SPAM = 4.8(6)×10−4per qubit, and the 2Q gate
error was measured to beϵ 2Q= 8(2)×10−4at the max-
imum gate angle. In the full-circuit benchmarks stud-
ied in that work, including random Clifford and mir-
ror circuits, several heuristic formulas for circuit fidelity
were used to extract an “effective” 2Q gate infidelity ˜ϵ 2Q
roughly following a depolarizing-channel model. These
estimates include additional overheads such as mem-
ory errors incurred during qubit idling and predict an
effective 2Q gate infidelity at the maximum angle of
˜ϵ2Q= 20(2)×10−4. For comparison, in Fig. 3 we re-
port ˜ϵ 2QforXYmodel simulation experiments usingpar-
tially-entangling gates ranging from ˜ϵ 2Q= 10.7(5)×10−4
(unencoded) to ˜ϵ 2Q= 7.1(6)×10−4(encoded inI 64,
leakage-heralded). Here, and similarly to Ref. [8], these
values are extracted from a simple depolarizing modelF(N gates) =A(1−5
4˜ϵ2Q)NgateswithN gates the number
of two-qubit gates in the circuit, so that ˜ϵ 2Qis an ef-
fective average fidelity andAis an overall normalization
capturing SPAM errors.
B. QEC benchmarking
For allk >1 QEC/QED experiments, due to the ap-
plication of one or more rounds of QEC/QED, we assume
that the logical memory channel on allkcan be written
as a stochastic logical Pauli channel [38]. Therefore, we
can write this channel in the form of
E(ρ) =X
ipiPiρPi,(1)
where the sum is over allkqubit Paulis. For theI 8◦ I6
experiments, in which a single round of QEC was per-
formed on| 0⟩⊗48and| ¯+⟩⊗48, we apply a union bound to
the process fidelity. Let us denote byp|0⟩⊗48andp|¯+⟩⊗48
the probability of any logical error occurring to the| 0⟩⊗48
and| ¯+⟩⊗48states. The process infidelity isI=Ppi,
where thep iare the non-identity Pauli error probabili-
ties in Eq. (1). Since anyP icontaining anXor aYwill
cause a logical error on| 0⟩⊗48and anyP icontaining aY
or aZwill cause a logical error on| ¯+⟩⊗48, we have that
1
2(p|0⟩⊗48+p|¯+⟩⊗48)≤I≤p|0⟩⊗48+p|¯+⟩⊗48.(2)
The average infidelity for this 48-qubit process is essen-
tially identical to the process infidelity in this case, differ-
ing by a factor of248
248+1, and we report the upper bound
on the average infidelity divided by the number of logical
qubits as the average infidelity of a QEC cycle per logical
qubit for these experiments.
For thek= 4 experiments, repeated Pauli errors which
may occur on a single qubit due to repeated applications
of QEC/QED will cancel, so the above analysis does not
apply directly. To deal with these cancellations, we re-
strict our attention to single-qubit logical memory chan-
nels by marginalizing over all but one qubit. For logical
qubitj, the reduced channel for ˜ρ= tr [k]\jρis
E(˜ρ) = ˜p I˜ρ+ ˜p XX˜ρX+ ˜p YY˜ρY+ ˜p ZZ˜ρZ
where ˜p Pis the probability of the single qubit PauliP
being applied to ˜ρ, which can be obtained by summing
over the termsp iin the full channel which apply aP
operator to logical qubitj. The process infidelity ˜Ijof
the reduced channel is ˜p X+ ˜pY+ ˜pZ.
To estimate the ˜p P, we can make use of a formula
which takes into account possible cancellations of Pauli
errors for the survival probability of a single logical qubit
under repeated rounds of QEC [39] given by
pψ(c) =1
2+
sψ−1
2
(1−2q ψ)c.(3)

9
wherep ψ(c) is the survival probability of an initial state
|ψ⟩aftercrounds of QEC. The logical SPAM error of
producing state| ψ⟩iss ψ, andq ψis the probability of in-
troducing a logical error to| ψ⟩after one round of QEC.
Since both logicalXandYoperators will flip| 0⟩, we
have thatp|0⟩= ˜pX+ ˜pYand, similarly,p |¯+⟩= ˜pY+ ˜pZ.
Therefore, we can estimate ˜Ifrom the survival probabil-
ities of the input states over repeated rounds of QEC by
again applying a union bound,
1
2(p|0⟩+p|¯+⟩)≤˜I≤p|0⟩+p|¯+⟩.(4)
We obtain estimates for thep ψby fitting experimen-
tal data to the curve in Eq. (3) through maximum like-
lihood estimation to take into account non-normality of
the sample distributions due to rare events. Uncertainties
were derived from Markov Chain Monte Carlo sampling
of the curve-fitting parameters. For bothk= 4 exper-
iments, we report the average of the upper bounds for
these single-qubit infidelities as the infidelity of a QEC
cycle per logical qubit. This quantity is the analog of the
depth-1 memory error infidelity reported in [8], which
does not capture correlations in the noise between dif-
ferent qubits and instead treats the memory error as a
single-qubit process. We note that when taking the av-
erage of the infidelity over the reduced channels, we add
the statistical uncertainties of the infidelities linearly and
not in quadrature, since the estimators for the different
logical qubits are not independent. For all experiments,
confidence intervals were obtained by adding the 1σsta-
tistical uncertainty (68%) of all estimators to the lower
and upper bounds in Eq. (2) and Eq. (4).
The average infidelity 1.1(3)×10−4corresponding to
non-leakage component of the depth-1 linear memory
error reported in the main text is obtained from the
transport-1QRB benchmarking data from [8]. We fit
the non-leakage-heralded memory error to the quadratic
curveax2+bx−cwherexis the number of transport
rounds andbis the depth-1 linear memory error anda
is the quadratic memory error. For those experiments,
a= 6(3)×10−5,b= 1.1(3)×10−4, andc= 2(5)×10−5.
We compare to the linear memory error because a lim-
ited amount of dynamical decoupling (DD) is used in all
QEC/QED memory experiments in the second half of
each cycle when theZsyndromes are extracted, sinceZ-
type noise on the data qubits commutes with the gates
therein and can therefore build coherently. In thed= 4
case, X pulses are inserted before, at the midpoint of,
and after the high-level syndromes are extracted, while
in thed= 2 case, X pulses are applied to the qubits that
are gated in the second half of the Z syndrome extraction
circuit, then to all the qubits at midpoint of Z syndrome
extraction, and then to the qubits gated in the first half
of syndrome extraction at the end of the QED cycle. This
ensures that X pulses are applied opportunistically in a
way that does not induce additional transport while com-
muting with the extracted stabilizers. In the first half ofeach cycle, no DD is used sinceXsyndrome extraction
should convertZ-type noise into incoherent errors.
For allk= 4 experiments, the QED/QEC cycle rejec-
tion rates overc∈ {1,2,4,8}cycles were fitted to the
exponential (1−r)c, whereris the rejection rate per cy-
cle. In theXbasis,r=.060+2
−2andr=.027+2
−1, ford= 2
andd= 4 respectively. In theZbasis,r=.070+2
−3, and
r=.030+2
−2, ford= 2,4 respectively.
For alld= 2 andd= 4 experiments, leakage-heralded
measurement is used to postselect on any leakage, since
leakage at certain locations can potentially violate fault-
tolerance in the absence of gadgets which introduce ad-
ditional overheads [40]. An alternative solution is leak-
age repump [41], which converts leakage into depolarizing
noise that can be fault-tolerantly handled by QEC/QED
without additional circuit gadgets. All QEC/QED ac-
ceptance rates reported are conditioned on the absence
of leakage and successfully preparing the data and an-
cilla qubit code blocks. Leakage acceptance rates, and
preacceptance rates for state preparation, are given in SI
Sec. IV.
C. Logical gate benchmarking
To perform logical cycle benchmarking on gates
in/betweenI 4code blocks, we sample a random logical
Pauli stringPover all logical qubits and initialize the sys-
tem in one of its corresponding logical eigenstates. For
inter-block gates between twoI 4blocks, Pauli strings of
length 8 are used, reflecting the fact that faults can prop-
agate across all logical qubits in both code blocks due to
the nonlocal structure of syndrome-extraction gadgets.
We repeat the Pauli-twirled logical gate (cycle)Ltimes,
perform syndrome extraction at a fixed frequency, and
then measure in thePbasis to obtain an estimate of
the expectation value ofP. We choose a maximum cy-
cle depth ofL= 64 for intra-block gates andL= 48
for inter-block gates. Syndrome-extraction gadgets are
interleaved at a fixed cadence of one round per eight log-
ical cycles, enabling detection of single-qubit faults and
two-qubit Pauli errors not in the set{XX, Y Y, ZZ}that
occur during gate execution or syndrome extraction. Any
shot with a detected error is discarded, and the remaining
shots are used for estimating the logical observable.
Pauli twirling is implemented using shot-level random-
ness via the real-time random number generation imple-
mented in the Guppy programming language. The Pauli
twirling allows the aggregate error channel on the input
stateρto be written as a stochastic Pauli channel
E(ρ) =X
ipiPiρPi,
where the sum is over all Pauli operators (modulo an
overall phase) and the Pauli error probabilitiesp i∈[0,1]
sum to 1. Taking a Walsh-Hadamard transform of these
error probabilities, we obtain thePauli fidelities,f j,

10
which are equivalent to the eigenvalues of the Pauli error
channel. Specifically,
fj=X
i(−1)⟨i,j⟩pi,
where the symbol⟨i, j⟩is 0 or 1 depending on whether
the PaulisP iandP jcommute or anti-commute.
Denoting a noisy circuit of lengthLasC j, the
output of the Pauli-basis measurement isE L[Pj] =
Tr(P jCj(Pj)). We estimate the Pauli fidelity by fitting
the expectation value decay with increasingLto an expo-
nential model, i.e.E L[Pi] =A jfL
j. The fit is performed
using maximum likelihood estimation (see SI Sec. V for
more details). We then average the Pauli fidelities to ob-
tain an estimate of the process fidelityF proof the logical
cycle, which, for the case of a single logical 2Q gate per
cycle, can be converted to the gate-averaged fidelity via
Favg= (4F pro+ 1)/5. TheF avgfor each of the three
experiments are reported in Fig. 2, along with error bars
representing the 1σ(68%) confidence intervals obtained
via standard parametric bootstrap. We discuss the de-
tails of the statistical analysis along with the postselec-
tion rates from error detection in SI Sec. V.
D. Logical GHZ state preparation
We estimate the GHZ state preparation fidelity in the
d= 2 codes via a single-shot protocol, making use of the
fact that the GHZ state is uniquely identified by its stabi-
lizersQ
iXiandZiZi+1. The former can be measured in
a quantum non-destructive (QND) fashion while the lat-
ter can be obtained by destructive readout of all qubits
in theZbasis. In contrast to other recent large-scale
GHZ state experiments [42], we do not postselect on any
of the GHZ stabilizers. The logical GHZ state in a sin-
gle globalI kcode is particularly simple; as described in
the main text, it factorizes into a physical GHZ state on
n−2 qubits and a Bell pair. As such, it can be directly
prepared fault-tolerantly by a circuit similar to the code
initialization circuit (see SI Sec. VIII for an illustration).
The GHZ stabilizerQ
iXican be measured efficiently
since it is stabilizer-equivalent toX 0Xn−1. We measure
X0Xn−1twice to ensure robustness against measurement
errors by coupling to a single ancilla each time that is dy-
namically allocated before reading out the parity.
Break-even is relatively easy to achieve for logical GHZ
state preparation on a globalI kcode block, since the
protocol prepares a physical GHZ state of essentially
comparable size and then enhances the logical fidelity
via postselection. By contrast, preparing a logical GHZ
state across many small iceberg code blocks is signifi-
cantly more general and nontrivial, corresponding to a
complicated entangled state of all physical qubits. We
describe here the case of manyI 4iceberg code blocks,
which uses the same FANOUT gate and code structure
as in our logical gate benchmarking protocol. However,the preparation for any number and size of code blocks
follows a similar structure. This protocol is displayed in
Fig. 2c and begins with preparation of one code block
in the| GHZ 4⟩state by the procedure described above
while all other code blocks are initialized in the| 0⟩⊗4
state. We then extend the logical GHZ state on the first
code block to the full logical GHZ state using the logi-
cal FANOUT gate described above. This gate maps the
state| GHZ k1⟩ ⊗ |0⟩⊗k2to the state| GHZ k1+k2⟩when
controlled on any logical qubit in theI k1code. One then
proceeds analogously to the usual GHZ state preparation
(in which the|+⟩state on one qubit is extended to the
|GHZ⟩state on all qubits by means of a tree of CX gates),
by applying the logical FANOUT gate in a log-depth tree
spanning iceberg code blocks. Each application of the
logical FANOUT only requires four two-qubit gates com-
pared tonwhen instead applying transversal CX gates
between each pair of code blocks, and straightforwardly
applies to the case that the code blocks are of incommen-
surate size. Subsequently, the GHZ stabilizerQ
iXican
still be measured relatively efficiently using the product
ofX 0Xn−1across all code blocks. We order the gates so
that first all top qubitsq 0in each block are coupled to the
ancilla followed by all bottom qubitsq n−1in the oppo-
site order, c.f. Fig. 2c, so thatXhook errors are almost
always detected on at least one code block. We again
repeat the measurement ofQ
iXito be FT to measure-
ment errors on the ancilla. We note that although many
applications of theI kcodes use the pFT continuously-
parameterized two-qubit Pauli rotation gates, both GHZ
state preparation protocols detailed above are actually
fully FT to single weight-2 faults.
The logical operators ofI k2◦ Ik1are rectangles and
we denote them by Xi,j=X 0,0Xi,0X0,jXi,j,Zi,j=
Zi,jZn1−1,jZi,n2−1Zn1−1,n 2−1. To prepare a global GHZ
state on the 48 logical qubits of theI 8◦ I6code, we be-
gin by initializing a code block in the| 0⟩⊗48state. The
stabilizers of this state already contain the Z-type GHZ
stabilizers Zi1,j1Zi2,j2for 1≤i 1, i2≤6,1≤j 1, j2,≤8.
To enforce the condition thatQ6,8
i=1,j=1Xi,jstabilizes the
state, we measure this operator using anI 6ancilla. We
observe that the operatorX 0,0X7,0X0,9X7,9commutes
with all theI 8◦I6stabilizers and anticommutes with all
Zi,j. Therefore, this operator is equal toQ6,8
i=1,j=1Xi,j
up to stabilizers. We can measure this operator by ini-
tializing anI 6ancilla with stabilizerX 0X7, performing
transversal CX gates from this ancilla to the top and
bottom blocks of theI 8◦ I6code, and then measuring
this ancilla in the X basis, see Fig. 2d. This will cause
the state to collapse to a±1 eigenvalue ofQ5,7
i=0,j=0 Xi,j
with random sign. We flip the sign of this eigenvalue in
software to +1 by updating the Pauli frame. Since we
are preparing the GHZ state in ad= 4 code, we must
measure the eigenvalue ofQ6,8
i=1,j=1Xi,ja second time to
protect against two measurement/gate errors which could
have caused a logical error in the firstI 6measurement.

11
If the twoI 6measurements differ by a logical operator,
we postselect. By postselecting in the presence of two
faults, we will prepare the state with logical error rate of
O(p3), and, by correcting a single error anywhere in the
preparation procedure, the postselection probability will
beO(p2). See SI Sec. IX for simulations demonstrating
these scalings with the error rate.

12
Supplementary Information for:
Computing with many encoded logical qubits beyond break-even
I: State preparation and error mitigation techniques
In theI kcodes, we prepare the logical zero state| 0⟩⊗k=|GHZ k⟩via a tree of CX gates that originate at a|+⟩state
with target qubits initialized in the|0⟩state. This tree can be extended to contain up ton/2 branches wheren=k+2,
in which case the state preparation proceeds in log depth. Pairs of branches are coupled to an ancilla qubit that reads
out theZZoperator of the qubits at the end of each branch; therefore, up ton/4 ancilla qubits andn/2 additional
CX gates are required, although the ancilla qubits may be reused at the expense of reduced circuit parallelization.
The simplest such case is the two-branch preparation presented in Ref. [11] and for which the corresponding gate
connectivity graph is displayed in Fig. S1.
FIG. S1.Two-branch state preparation gadget in theI kcodes. (a)Two-branch tree specifying preparation of the
logical zero state of theI 48code. Nodes are labeled with the indexicorresponding to qubitq iin the code. Qubitq 0is
initialized in the|+⟩state while all other qubits are initialized in the|0⟩state; directed arrows indicate the control and target
of CX gates between the qubits and all arrows terminating on nodes at the same vertical height are performed in parallel. The
red bracket connecting the terminal nodes indicates that the corresponding operatorZ 48Z49will be read out by coupling to an
ancilla.(b)The circuit gadget instantiating the two-branch tree in theI 10code for illustration.
This gadget is fault-tolerant: all single faults are detectable or do not act on the logical state, as we now explain.
First, a weight-1Zerror does not propagate down the CX tree at all, so it will be detected by theXstabilizer later.
A weight-1Xerror does propagate down the tree; however, it either occurs onq 0in which case it applies the code
stabilizerQ
iXito the physical state, or it flips the value of theZZoperator measured at the end of the branches,
since it can only spread down one branch. Gate errors may also cause single weight-2 faults. Any Pauli error on a
single gate that does not involveq 0either flips theZZoperator at the end of the branches (if it applies anXorYto
the target), causes a detectable syndrome, or applies aZZoperator that acts as the identity on a physical GHZ state.
The situation is similar for gates that do involveq 0; although these can cause Pauli errors to potentially propagate
down both tree branches if they apply anXorYtoq 0, either this results in an overall detectableYerror, or it
applies theQ
iXicode stabilizer.
In Fig. S2 we illustrate the log-depth version of this state preparation protocol. The key observation is that the
same arguments above for fault-tolerance apply as long as we specify the tree such that theZZoperators measured
always correspond to two qubits whose only common ancestor is the root of the treeq 0. Conceptually, one builds
up such a tree iteratively by separating nodes into two sets: those withq 1as an ancestor, and those without. Each
time a new successive node is added to the tree, it is either added to the descendants ofq 1or to the side of the tree
that does not descend fromq 1depending on which set is larger, to maintain a balance between the size of the two

13
sets. Following this procedure, one obtains a log-depth tree in which half of the terminal nodes descend fromq 1and
half do not; pairing off nodes in each set obtains theZZoperators that should be checked for fault-tolerance. It is
possible, depending on the desired depth of the state preparation protocol, for the tree generated in this fashion to
be imbalanced by at most one surplus/deficit qubit descending fromq 1; the leftover qubit may be paired withq 0in
checkingZZoperators of the pairs of terminal nodes.
FIG. S2.Log-depth state preparation gadget forI kcodes. (a)The balanced tree structure specifying preparation of
the logical zero state in theI 48code. As before, red brackets indicate pairs of qubits whoseZZoperator will be read out by
coupling to an ancilla (note that in this particular case, the qubit with indexmon the left connects to the qubit with index
m−1 on the right).(b)Circuit instantiation of the log-depth tree in theI 10code, as also depicted in Fig. 3. PauliXgates
in the circuit implement the DFS-based error mitigation discussed below; note that this flips the noiseless value of the ancilla
measurements that is checked as part of the repeat-until-success protocol.
Rather than postselect on errors detected on the ancilla measurements that record the variousZZoperators, we
instead use a repeat-until-success (RUS) protocol in which any detected errors trigger a reset of all qubits followed
by a new attempt at initializing the code. In Fig. S3 we report statistics on the number of loop iterations for RUS
to pass, across all experiments in which it was utilized. Even for the largest code studied,I 94, initialization succeeds
with exceptionally high probability in only one or two loop iterations, with a maximum of six loop iterations required
across all experiments of any size in this work. We group the results in Fig. S3 for each experiment type (SPAM, GHZ,
XYmodel simulation) and aggregate results within each category across experiments using the same-size codes since
other differences do not affect the state preparation. For GHZ state preparation experiments using manyI 4code
blocks we report the success with which we can prepare each individualI 4code block and aggregate the statistics
across allI 4code blocks in a given shot. However, we separate the results reported by total number of code blocks
since, e.g., the memory error experienced by the qubits may depend on the total number of qubits involved in the
experiment.
Although the log-depth initialization gadget substantially reduces the circuit depth of state preparation, qubit idling
remains a concern due to the potential for the buildup of coherent dephasing errors (for instance, due to spatial and
temporal variance in magnetic fields) which can grow quadratically at small idle times. Below, we discuss additional
error mitigation techniques that were employed only in the log-depth gadget to further reduce coherent memory errors.
To the extent that coherent memory errors arespatiallyuniform across the device, motivated bydecoherence-free
subspace(DFS) codes [32, 43] we insert a Pauli X operator into the log-depth tree so that after each full layer of
the tree is applied, the qubits are in a “decoherence-free state” that is a superposition of computational basis states
with an equal mixture of 0s and 1s. The net effect at the end of state preparation is equivalent to the application
ofX ioperators on half of the physical qubits, so one can simply flip the relevant bits in postprocessing with the
understanding that in the case thatn= 2jwithjodd, the code space throughout the circuit is now defined by the
SZ=−1 subspace. In Fig. S2 we show the inserted PauliXoperator along with two additional PauliXoperators
that we insert at the end of initialization so thatq 0andq n−1are in opposite states; since these two qubits correspond

14
FIG. S3.Repeat-until-success statistics for distance-2 experiments.We report the fraction of the time that a code
block required each number of RUS iterations before no error was detected, corresponding to the fraction of total shots for
experiments using a singleI kcode block, or fraction of total initializations = (total shots times number of code blocks) for
experiments using multiple code blocks. Experiments of the same type (i.e., SPAM, GHZ state preparation, orXYmodel
simulation) are aggregated on the plots above when they only differ in aspects that do not affect state preparation. Shot counts
for each experiment are reported in the relevant SI sections below.
to the pivot qubits, they may idle for long periods during computations in a singleI kcode. Consequently, this may
provide additional protection against coherent dephasing on those two qubits in particular. In deep circuits, we expect
that the code does not remain in a DFS state; however, at the beginning and end of the circuit, and in particular
during any terminal syndrome extraction, we might expect the state to remain approximately DFS, so this technique
provides a low-overhead way to mitigate some coherent error both during the initialization gadget and potentially
during an encoded circuit.
To the extent that coherent memory errors may be spatially varying but relativelytemporallyuniform, we insert
two dynamical decoupling (DD)Xpulses on the qubits idling for the longest period during state preparation. As in
Ref. [19], we alternate the sign of the DD pulses on each qubit between +Xand−X(which have physically distinct
implementations on Helios) so as to cancel any potential coherent over-rotation on the single-qubit gate itself in the
positive vs. negative directions. We do not depict these gates in Fig. S2 but they are arranged to occur during the
long idle period on half the system qubits on the right-hand side of the gadget, with roughly equal temporal spacing.
Finally, we introduce a new, FT two-branch|0⟩⊗k1k2state preparation gadget for concatenated iceberg codes
Ik2◦ Ik1which generalizes thed= 2 circuit in Fig. S1. This circuit is shown for theI 8◦ I6code in Fig. S4. First,
we initialize the lower-levelI k1blocks using thed= 2 two-branch circuit in Fig. S1. Then, we perform a two-branch
circuit comprised of transversal CX gates with a logical ancilla which measures the logicalZZoperators of twoI 6

15
FIG. S4.Two-branch state preparation gadget in theI 8◦ I6code.All wires are logical, representingI 6blocks and
all CX gates are transversal. The “init L1” gadgets initialize theI 6using thed= 2 two-branch state preparation circuit of
Fig. S1.
blocks to catch all cascading logicalXerrors, analogous to thed= 2 case. The main difference is that we arrange the
CX gates so that they have only two controls, so that any weight-two Z error resulting from a single failure will be
caught by thed= 2 EDZ gadgets, which extractXsyndromes of theI k1code using a Bell-pair syndrome extraction
circuit similar to the non-destructive part of Fig. S5b. Similarly, the EDX gadget will extractd= 2 Z syndrome of
the thirdI k1block to catch high weightXerrors which may result from anXXerror on one of the CX gates in
the first transversal CX between the top two code blocks. We postselect on any non-trivial measurements in these
EDZ/EDX gadgets as well as in the bottom transversalZmeasurement of theI k1ancilla. If theI k2◦Ik1code passes
these checks, a single failure will lead to at most a weight-one error on the code block. Pairs of gate failures can lead
to columns of errors on the output code block of weight possibly larger than two. However, since these error strings
intersect the support of any weight-four logical operator on at most two qubits, we shall show in Sec. IV that such
error are “generalized weight-two,” in the sense that they can be treated as weight-two errors and the usual proofs
that computations are FT to distance four will still apply.
II: Data from SPAM experiments
In Table I we report explicitly all distance-2 data appearing in Fig. 1b and Fig. 1c.
We report separately the distance-4 data, which does not use RUS in its state preparation protocol, so that we can
distinguish the pre-acceptance and post-acceptance rates of the experiment, where thepre-acceptance ratecorresponds
to the fraction of leakage-postselected shots that pass state preparation and thepost-acceptancerate refers to the
fraction of remaining shots that are not postselected due to a weight-two error. In theI 8◦ I6SPAM experiment
the leakage acceptance rate was 0.775+7
−6, the pre-acceptance rate was 0.654(8), and the post-acceptance rate was
0.987(2). No logical errors were recorded after performing 4000 shots of the experiment, which is consistent with an
upper bound (Wilson 68% confidence interval) on the SPAM infidelity per logical qubit of 8.3×10−6.
III: GHZ-state based syndrome extraction and readout inI kcodes
The standard gadgets ford= 2 syndrome extraction presented in Refs. [6, 11] use two ancilla qubits to extract the
SZandS Xsyndromes non-destructively in the middle of the circuit. These gadgets are made FT by careful ordering
of the SE gates so that each ancilla serves as a flag for errors that may occur in extracting the syndrome measured
by the other ancilla. This assumes that any nontrivial measurement of the corresponding ancilla qubit results in that
circuit’s results being discarded via postselection, and it is not possible to distinguish errors that occurred during the
rest of the circuit that resulted in a nontrivial syndrome from flagged errors that occurred during the SE gadget itself.
More importantly, the gates involved in these gadgets are highly serial, with at most two performed simultaneously
throughout the gadget. This presents a challenge for efficient qubit transport on Helios, both because it can parallelize
batches of up to 8 two-qubit gates at a time in its gate zones and because this type of “two-to-all” circuit structure
requires repeatedly moving the same ancilla qubits back and forth from the ring storage to the quantum logic regions,
which may result in large time overheads.

16
Experiment Infidelity (×10−5) Total shots Leakage accept rate Overall accept rate
Unencoded 48(6) 4000 – –
I48, two-branch 6+3
−2 2000 –.942(5)
I48, log-depth 3+3
−1 2000 –.943(5)
I48, two-branch,S Xextraction 31+9
−7 2000 –.47(1)
I48, log-depth,S Xextraction 13+6
−4 2000 –.49(1)
Unencoded, LH 170(10) 4000.82(3).82(3)
I48, log-depth, LH 12+3
−2 4000.916(4).829(6)
I48, log-depth, LH,S Xextraction 21(4) 4000.907+4
−5 .695(7)
TABLE I. Logical distance-2 and unencoded SPAM experiment results. Here, and elsewhere, LH refers to the leakage-heralded
measurement available on Helios (Methods A). Infidelity is reported per logical qubit as in Fig. 1 as the fraction of total shots
with no logical error, divided by number of logical qubits, and (leakage) acceptance rate is computed as the probability of
preparing 48 qubits with no detected (leakage) error in both the encoded and unencoded case. Uncertainties for all encoded
experiments in this work are obtained from Wilson 68% confidence intervals unless otherwise indicated, and are reported with
parenthetical notation when symmetric and+
−notation where asymmetric, with values referring to the trailing significant digits.
…
………
FIG. S5.Syndrome extraction and readout gadgets in theI kcodes (a)GHZ-based syndrome extraction illustrated
on anI 10code. Both four-qubit ancillary GHZ states read in parities across all qubits; the lower ladder of CX gates wraps
around to include the top four physical qubits as well.(b)Readout gadget used inI 94GHZ state preparation experiments.
The information encoding the measured syndromes is described in the text below.
These standard gadgets are designed with efficiency of qubit number required in mind. However, for nearly all
d= 2 experiments in this work, there is a surplus of qubits in the device that we may employ for mitigation of errors.
The parallelization of the standard gadgets can already be improved simply by assigning a flag qubit for each ancilla
rather than using them as flags for each other. This allows twice as many gates to be implemented in parallel, since
each ancilla and its corresponding flag are prepared in a Bell pair and syndrome extraction gates can be broadcast
over both qubits in the Bell pair.
In this work we take this idea further, noting that we can achieve further parallelization of SE gates by entangling
ancillas into GHZ states in the appropriate basis; gates can then be broadcast over all qubits in the ancillary GHZ
states and one qubit detects the syndrome while the remaining qubits flag any potential error that may occur during
the gadget. In Fig. S5a we illustrate this scheme on anI 10code. Using four-qubit GHZ states takes full advantage
of the gate-zone parallelization on Helios while introducing minimal delays for encoding and decoding of the ancillary
states themselves. We expect this is close to the optimal size GHZ state for performing SE on Helios, because larger
states will introduce larger encoding/decoding delays, will be more sensitive to coherent dephasing errors on the

17
ancillas, and the gate zones are already being fully utilized in parallel when 8 gates are performed simultaneously
(larger states will require additional transport rounds to perform more gates). However, one can take the GHZ states
to be of any intermediate size up to potentiallyn(the Steane-style syndrome extraction limit [44]) which may be
useful on future devices.
To be explicit, we use anX-basis GHZ state to detectXerrors (detected byS Z) and vice versa with aZ-basis
GHZ state as shown in Fig. S5a. We arrange the gates that encode/decode the GHZ states in a careful order as
shown, so that all errors which can flip the syndrome propagate back to the same ancilla (i.e., the qubit initialized in
|0⟩for theX-basis GHZ state and vice versa), whose measured value records the relevant syndrome. All other qubits
flag any hook errors that might occur (i.e., aZerror on theX-basis GHZ state from gates or memory errors that
could propagate back onto the system), and we correspondingly discard any shot where any qubit in either GHZ state
records a nontrivial measurement. We note that when the DFS-based error mitigation discussed in Sec. I is used, the
code space is defined by theS Z=−1 subspace so the expected noiseless value of the relevant ancilla measurement is
flipped.
Readout proceeds similarly to syndrome extraction, but theS Zsyndrome does not need to be extracted non-
destructively; it can be reconstructed by the destructive measurement of each qubit in theZbasis. As a result, we
only extractS Xnon-destructively during readout, using a four-qubitZ-basis GHZ state. In general, it is not clear
that extractingS Xat the end of a circuit is always desirable, as the gadget itself can introduce coherent idling errors
in theZbasis that do not affect the destructive measurements of the qubits but suppress the acceptance rate since
they are detected byS X(and potentially introduce extra logical errors). For the state preparation and measurement
(SPAM) experiments that are described in the main text and reported in Fig. 1b and Fig. 1c, we report the fidelity of
the distance-2 experiments both with and without terminalS Xextraction. It is clear from the results reported there
that terminalS Xextraction appears to typically increase both discard rates and logical error. For this reason, we do
not extractS Xat the end of the circuit in ourXYmodel experiments.
The results reported in Fig. 1b and Fig. 1c also include some experiments that used the leakage-heralded measure-
ment available on Helios (Methods A). As expected, those experiments also show slightly larger logical error rates and
discard rates, while the leakage-heralded measurement substantially improves the results presented in Fig. 3. This
is primarily due to the fact that the leakage-heralded measurement has larger associated physical SPAM error but
the SPAM experiments, being relatively short circuits, do not result in much qubit leakage. Consequently, we expect
leakage-heralding not to enhance logical error in these very short circuits.
During both syndrome extraction and readout, we employ additional dynamical decoupling pulses following the
same method as discussed for state preparation in Sec. I, applying±Xpulses of alternating sign to idling qubits
during the gadget, with an even parity of pulses applied on any given qubit before and after SE gates to avoid
affecting the code stabilizers. In the SPAM experiments of Fig. 1b,c, these pulses are only applied to the experiments
that extractedS X. The full impact of these DD pulses is not clearly resolved and may require further study to refine
pulse timing.
In theI 94GHZ state preparation experiments, there are not sufficiently many qubits on the device to use the
log-depth initialization gadget and the GHZ-based readout protocol. For this reason, we default to the two-branch
initialization presented in Fig. S1, and we use the readout gadget shown in Fig. S5b, which further improves on the
gadget of Ref. [11] and requires only one ancilla qubit. In terms of the physical operators measured at the end of
this gadget, we still have Zi=Z iZn−1; however, the stabilizers are now encoded into the operatorsS X=Z 0and
SZ=Qn−1
i=1Zi=Z 1Z2. . . Z kZn−1. Any nontrivial measurement of the ancilla flags errors that occur during the
gadget.
IV: Concatenated iceberg QEC cycle details
In this section, we give fault-tolerance proofs, decoding algorithms, and experimental data from Helios for the
QEC cycle ford= 4 concatenated iceberg codes introduced in the main text. Recall that in theI k2◦ Ik1code,
stabilizers consist of rows and pairs of columns, see Fig. 1a. We call the former low-level stabilizers, denoted by
SX/Z,i =Qn1
j=0(Xij/Zij) fori∈ {0, ..., n 2−1}, since they are stabilizers of thed= 2I k1codes and the latter, high-
level stabilizers, denoted bySi
X/Z=Qn2
j=0(X0,jXi,j/Zi,jZn1−1,j) fori∈ {1, ..., n 1−2}since they are the stabilizers
of the encodedI k2.
The full QEC cycle forI k2◦ Ik1is given in Fig. S6. To summarize, a| ¯+⟩⊗k1state encoded in anI k1ancilla is
used to extract the high-levelXstabilizers,Si
X. The qubits used to flag this ancilla are unencoded, initialized in the
|0⟩⊗n1state. Then the lower-level stabilizersS X,jare extracted using Bell paird= 2 syndrome extraction (denoted
as EDZ in Figs. S6 and 1d), the circuit for which is shown in Fig. S5b. The second half of the QEC cycle is conjugate
to the first via the Hadamard gate and extracts theSi
ZandS Z,jsyndromes.

18
Before discussing decoding the QEC cycle under circuit-level noise, we give a decoding algorithm in the case of
correcting input errors with a noiseless QEC cycle. In this case, we must correct a single input error and halt if
uncorrectable errors of weight>1 occur. The intuition behind decoding in this case is that the high-level stabilizers,
corresponding to pairs of columns, will give information about thexcoordinates of errors, and the low-level stabilizers
will give information about theycoordinates. If a weight-one error occurs, we can deduce thexandycoordinates
of the error from the stabilizers and correct it. If a detectable error occurs, we can deduce from the stabilizers that
there will either be multiplexcoordinates, or multipleycoordinates, or both. Pseudocode for correcting Z errors
given the X stabilizers is shown in Fig. S7. Correcting X errors given the Z stabilizers is analogous.
We see that strings of vertical and horizontal errors can be differentiated from correctable errors by the presence
of multipleycoordinates or multiplexcoordinates in Algorithm 1. We will refer to such errors as “generalized
weight-two,” due to both their detectability as well as to the size of their common support with any of the weight-four
logical operators being≤2 (because lines intersect rectangles on at most two vertices).
Definition 1.We callXerror strings of the formQ
j∈SXx,jandQ
i∈SXi,ygeneralized weight-two. Similarly, we
callZerror strings of the formQ
j∈SZx,jandQ
i∈SZi,ygeneralized weight-two. A product of a generalized weight-two
Xerror and a generalized weight-twoZerror is also generalized weight-two, due to independent correction ofXand
Zerrors.
Additionally, suppose we know that a vertical or horizontal string of errors has occurred, and, moreover, we know
the commonxorycoordinate of the string. Algorithm 1 will then compute theyorxlocations of the string
respectively, and this error can be corrected. Therefore, we call such strings for which the common coordinate is
known “generalized weight-one” errors. There is one additionalXerror which is “generalized weight-one:” anX
error on all the qubits of a column. Since pairs of columns are stabilizers, these are all equivalent up to a stabilizer:Q
j∈[n 2]Xx1,j∼Q
j∈[n 2]Xx1,j. Therefore, if in Algorithm 1, the length of the array ‘Ycoords’ isn 2, we may applyQ
j∈[n 2]X0,jand this will correct an error string on any column.
Definition 2.We call the tuple(Q
j∈SXx,j, x), representing a vertical error string with a knownxcoordinate
generalized weight-one. Similarly, we call the tuple(Q
i∈SXi,y, y), representing a horizontal error string with a known
ycoordinate generalized weight-one. Finally, we also denote the vertical error stringQ
j∈[n 2]Xx1,jwithx 1arbitrary
generalized weight-one. Similarly,(Q
j∈SZx,j, x),(Q
i∈SZi,y, y), andQ
j∈[n 2]Zx1,jare generalized weight-one. A
product of a generalized weight-oneXerror and a generalized weight-oneZerror is also generalized weight-one, due
to independent correction ofXandZerrors.
Z
...
X|0⟩
q0
q1 S
qn−1 S
qn
|+⟩
............
|+⟩⊗k1X/vextendsingle/vextendsingle0/angbracketrightbig⊗k1Z
|0⟩⊗n1Z |+⟩⊗n1XEDZ EDX
EDZ EDX
EDZ EDX
EDZ EDX
1
FIG. S6.The QEC cycle forI k2◦ Ik1.The first half of the QEC cycle extractsXstabilizers and the second half extracts
Zstabilizers. EDZ refers tod= 2 X syndrome and EDX tod= 2 Z syndrome extraction respectively. All CX gates shown are
transversal, including the ones between the bottom two ancilla wires. The top ancilla is anI k1code block and the bottom is
n1physical qubits, so they have the same size, and “transversal” in this case still meansn 1physical CX gates.
We will prove versions of the fault-tolerance criteria in [45] ford= 4 codes, broadened to take into account the
notions of generalized weight-1 and -2 errors, as well as the handling of measurement errors, which are natural for this
QEC cycle. As a consequence, the conditions we prove are weaker in the sense of allowing more general output errors,

19
but stronger in that the QEC cycle must correct more general input errors. To demonstrate that these conditions are
sufficient for fault-tolerance, we will show that they imply the desiredd= 3 QEC andd= 4 QED ExRec conditions
(an ExRec or “extended rectangle” is a region of a circuit containing two adjacent QEC cycles; see Definition 3).
Namely, ford= 3, we show that an encoded computation using anI k2◦ Ik1code will succeed so long as there is
at most one fault per ExRec. Furthermore, we show ford= 4, that if there are at most two faults per ExRec, the
computation will either succeed or halt, but will not result in an undetectable logical error.
Proposition 1.The QEC cycle for two-level concatenated iceberg codes satisfies the following properties:
1. If the QEC cycle contains no fault, it will take an input with a generalized weight-1 (or weight-0) error to an
error-free output, and will halt the computation in the case of a generalized weight-2 input.
2. Suppose the QEC cycle contains a single internal fault. Then it will take an input with no errors to an output
with error of generalized weight at most 1. Also, it will take an input with a generalized weight-1 error to a
generalized weight-1 output, or if it does not do so, it will pass flags to the next QEC cycle which will cause it
to halt.
3. If the QEC cycle contains at two internal faults, it will take an error-free input to an output of at most generalized
weight-2, or it will halt.
Proof.Let us discuss the correction ofZerrors as correctingXerrors is analogous. The proof of 1. follows from
Algorithm 1 since, in this case, the extraction of the stabilizers is noiseless. Also, it is clear that, in the absence
of noise, Algorithm 1 will correct a weight-oneZerror. In order to proceed further, we must analyze and correct
circuit-level noise in terms of generalized weight-one and weight-two errors.Zhook errors can only occur in the
second half of the QEC cycle.Zerrors on the iceberg ancilla for extracting theSi
Zor its flags will lead to verticalZ
strings. An example is shown in Fig. S8, where an error on the flag for the first qubit of the iceberg ancilla will lead to
a vertical string ofZerrors withxcoordinate 0. In the absence of further errors, the 0th flag will have a non-trivial
measurement, and thisxcoordinate is known, making the error generalized weight-one. This information can be
passed to the next QEC cycle, which can then correct this error (this is the “HighZFlags” measurement register in
Algorithms 2 and 3, shown in Figs. S9 and S10).
Any single internal error, for it to be a hook error ofZtype, must affect an ancilla in the second half of the QEC
cycle and will therefore cause a non-trivial flag measurement, and lead to an error of at most generalized weight-1 if
the input is error-free, proving the first half of 2. To prove the second half, we must discuss what happens in the case
of measurement errors in theXstabilizer registers (“HighX” and “LowX”) which, ideally, will correct generalized
weight-1 input errors. If the error is strictly weight-1, in the absence of measurement errors, Algorithm 2 would deduce
thexandycoordinate of such an error and be able to correct it. If a single measurement error occurs, then one of
these two coordinates may be missing. In this case, we allow the error to pass through to the next QEC cycle, but,
in Algorithm 3, we also pass the flags “CurrInternalFaults”’ and “NextInputErrorAllowed” to the next QEC cycle
and postselect if there are subsequent internal faults or input errors respectively. If the error is generalized weight-1
with a flaggedxorycoordinate from the previous QEC cycle, and a single internal-fault in the current QEC cycle
introduces any uncertainty in any of theyorxcoordinates of the string respectively, we can postselect, as we know
two errors in this ExRec have occurred (the hook error from the previous QEC cycle and the current internal fault).
We can tell if such an internal fault has occurred by looking at, in the case of a vertical hook error, the parity of the
number of detectedycoordinates, which should be accompanied by a detectedxerror coordinate in the case that this
parity is odd, or no detectedxerror coordinate, in the case that this parity is even (see the comments “Halt if there is
another error in addition to the hook error” in Algorithm 3). We computationally enumerate all single internal-faults
and all generalized weight-1 inputs in the case of theI 2◦ I2=J16,4,4KQEC cycle, and verify that, in all cases, if a
generalized weight-1 input is turned into a higher weight output, the subsequent QEC cycle will halt, completing the
proof of 2, as the decoding for other sizes of iceberg layers is entirely analogous.
Finally, if a hook error occurs, a subsequent internal fault, such as a measurement error in the measurement of
flag 0 in Fig. S8 can turn a generalized weight-1 vertical error, for instance, into an error where thexcoordinate of
this error string is not detected. In this case, the error becomes generalized weight-two. We can verify 3. through an
exhaustive enumeration of all twosinternal faults forr+s= 2 in the case of theI 2◦ I2=J16,4,4KQEC cycle.
Note that Prop. 1 implies that the scaling in Fig. S11 for circuit-level simulations of theI 2◦ I2QEC cycle should
have anO(p3) infidelity andO(p2) rejection rate, consistent with the numerically fitted slopes.
Now, we prove that Prop. 1 implies thed= 3 andd= 4 ExRec conditions.
Definition 3.In a memory experiment with repeated QEC cycles, we define an ExRec to be any pair of consecutive
cycles. An ExRec is good to distance 3 if it contains≤1errors.

20
Proposition 2.Suppose| ψ⟩is in the code space ofI k2◦Ik1and is input tomrounds of QEC. If all ExRecs are good
to distance 3, then the computation will not halt and the output will have an error of generalized weight at most one.
Proof.First, suppose that all ExRecs are good to distance three. Then the success of the computation follows from
Prop. 1 since QEC cycles with errors are interleaved with perfect QEC cycles, which will correct any generalized
weight-one errors produced by the faulty QEC cycles.
Now, we prove thed= 4 ExRec condition forZerrors (the proof forXerrors is analogous). Again, suppose the
computation ismrounds of QEC and the input is in the code space ofI k2◦ Ik1.
Definition 4.An ExRec is good to distance 4 if it contains≤2errors.
Proposition 3.If all ExRecs are good to distance 4, then the computation will either halt or the output will have an
Xerror of generalized weight at most two.
Proof.If all ExRecs are good to distance 4, then we examine the first ExRec where after the first QEC gadget, there
is an error of generalized weight-two. There are two ways in which this can occur (by Prop. 1). The first is that the
input to the ExRec was error-free and there were two errors in the first QEC cycle. In this case, the second QEC cycle
must be error-free for the ExRec to be good, and the computation will halt because this noiseless QEC cycle has a
weight-two input error. The second possibility is that the input to the ExRec had a generalized weight-one error and
there was a single internal fault in the first QEC cycle. In this case, since after the first QEC cycle of the ExRec, the
error is no longer generalized weight≤1, by Prop. 1, the second QEC cycle will halt, completing the proof.
We note that while we prove the ExRec conditions here for memory experiments, we believe they could be straight-
forwardly generalized to, for example, a transversal CX gate, by looking at all the flags in both inputs to theCXgate
and halting if their combined non-trivial measurements are too numerous (for instance, if both had a “CurrFailures”
value of 1 in Algorithm 3).
For theI 2◦ I2and 2× I 2codes, we performed memory experiments on Helios whereccycles of QEC/QED were
performed forc∈ {1,2,4,8}. Leakage heralding was used and the leakage acceptance, preacceptance, and QEC/QED
acceptance rates are given in Table II. We decode over multiple ExRecs using Algorithm 3 (and analogous decoding
forXerrors) with the extra postselection condition that correctable hook errors must occur on every otherxory
coordinate due to the fact that the ancillas in syndrome extraction interact with every other qubit. We note that
the preacceptance rate, which denotes the fraction of all unleaked shots for which all the state preparations in the
protocol succeed, could be made arbitrarily close to 1 through repeat-until-success, and leakage postselection could
be solved through the conversion of leakage noise to depolarizing noise in hardware using the technique of Ref. [41].
Therefore, it is the QEC acceptance rate, which should scale asO(p2), which is fundamentally the limiting factor and
must be increased by scaling the code distance, as we demonstrate. For the singleI 8◦ I6QEC cycle experiment, the
decoding problem over a single ExRec is significantly easier, as we can simply iterate over all possible single failures
and apply corrections whenever the flags and syndromes are compatible with such failures, and postselect otherwise.
The results for this experiment are given in Table III.
Experiment Cycles Leakage acceptance Preacceptance QEC/QED acceptance
I2◦ I2(X Basis) [1, 2, 4, 8] [.930+8
−9,.89(1),.81(1),.67+1
−2] [.88+1
−2, .83+1
−2, .88(1), .84+1
−2] [.989+3
−4, .970+6
−7, .90(1), .75(2)]
I2◦ I2(Z Basis) [1, 2, 4, 8] [.917+8
−9,.89(1),.77(1),.64+1
−2] [.87(1), .84(1), .80+1
−2, .82+2
−1] [.991+3
−4, .952+7
−8, .88+1
−3, .76(2)]
2× I 2(X Basis) [1, 2, 4, 8] [.983+4
−5, .984(4), .967+5
−6, .937+7
−8] [.993+2
−3,.991+2
−4,.993+2
−4,.996+1
−3] [.960+6
−7, .912+8
−10, .71+1
−2, .64(2)]
2× I 2(Z Basis) [1, 2, 4, 8] [.983+4
−5, .984(4), .967+5
−6, .937+7
−8] [.993+2
−3, .990+3
−4, .981+4
−5, .994+2
−4] [.960+6
−7, .917+8
−9, .74+1
−2, .50+1
−2]
TABLE II. Acceptance rates fork= 4 memory experiments over 1,2,4,and 8 cycles of QEC or QED. 1000 shots were submitted
for each cycle length, for the| 0⟩⊗4and| ¯+⟩⊗4states for theI 2◦ I2and 2× I 2codes. In all experiments, leakage heralding was
used and shots with detected leakage events were discarded. Leakage acceptance is the fraction of shots for which no detected
leakage errors occurred. The preacceptance is the fraction of leakage postselected shots for which all state preparations (both
for the input states and, in the case of the concatenated code, the lower-level ancilla used in QEC) succeeded. The QEC/QED
acceptance rates are computed as the fraction of unleaked, preaccepted shots for which the QEC/QED cycles do not halt due
to uncorrectable configurations ofd/2 circuit failures. In the accepted shots, one error occurred in the 4-cycleI 2◦ I2X basis
experiment which induced an error on one of the logical qubits. No errors were found in any of the otherk= 4 memory
experiments.

21
Experiment Leakage acceptance Preacceptance QEC acceptance Accepted shots Errors
I8◦ I6(X Basis) .431(7).57(1).58+1
−2 708 0
I8◦ I6(Z Basis) .453(7).64(1).66(1) 958 0
TABLE III. Experimental data for theI 8◦ I6QEC cycle experiments. 5000 shots were submitted in each basis. Leakage,
preacceptance and QEC acceptance rates are as before. Of the 708 accepted shots in the X basis and 958 accepted shots in the
Z basis, no errors occurred.
Algorithm 1 Decode( Si
X,SX,i)
Xcoords = []
Ycoords = []
fori in [1, ..., n1→2]do
ifSi
X=- 1 then
Append i to Xcoords
end if
end for
iflength of Xcoords >n 1/2then
Xcoords = [0 ,. . . ,n 1→1]\Xcoords
end if
forj in [0,..., n2→1]do
ifSX,j== -1 then
Append j to Ycoords
end if
end for
iflength of Xcoords = 1 and length of Ycoords = 1 then
Apply a Z correction to qubit (Xcoords[0], Ycoords[0])
end if
iflength of Xcoords >1 or length of Ycoords >1then
Halt due to uncorrectable error
end if
FIG. S7.Noiseless decoding ofXstabilizer measurements.Given two arrays of noiseless X stabilizer measurements
Si
XandS X,i, in the presence of non-trivial syndromes, this algorithm will either return a compatible weight-one Z correction
or determine that an uncorrectable error has occurred.
Z0
............
Z0
|+⟩⊗k1X/vextendsingle/vextendsingle0/angbracketrightbig⊗k1Z
|0⟩⊗n1Z |+⟩⊗n1Z0 XEDZ EDX
EDZ EDX
EDZ EDX
EDZ EDX
1
FIG. S8.Error propagation during high-levelZsyndrome extraction.An example of aZ 0error on the ancilla during
high-levelZsyndrome extraction spreading to a vertical string ofZ 0errors on the data iceberg code blocks.

22
Algorithm 2 ComputeHookAndErrorCoords(HighX, LowX, HighZFlags, LowZFlags)
Xcoords = []
Ycoords = []
Hooks Xlocs = []
Hooks Ylocs = []
ZCorrs = []
fori in [0, ..., n1→1]do
ifHighX[i] = 1 then
Append i to Xcoords
end if
ifHighZFlags[i] = 1 then
Append i to Hooks Xlocs
end if
end for
iflength of Xcoords >n 1/2then
Xcoords = [0 ,. . . ,n 1→1]\Xcoords
end if
forj in [0,..., n2→1]do
ifLowX[j] = 1 then
Append j to Ycoords
end if
ifLowZFlags[j] = 1 then
Append j to Hooks Ylocs
end if
end for
return (Hooks Xlocs, Hooks Ylocs, Xcoords, Ycoords)
FIG. S9.Helper Function for decoding circuit-levelZerrors from QEC Cycle Measurements.Given the four
relevant (possibly faulty) measurement registers from the current and previous QEC cycle, this algorithm computes the possible
hook error locations as well as non-trivialxandycoordinates of Z errors. The HighX and LowX measurement registers are
from the transversalXmeasurement of| ¯+⟩⊗k1and the stabilizer measurements of the EDZ gadgets in the first half of the QEC
cycle respectively. The HighZFlags and LowZFlags are the flags for the| ¯0⟩⊗k1ancilla and the flags from the EDX gadgets in
the second half of the previous QEC cycle, which record the locations of the vertical and horizontalZhook errors that the
current QEC cycle must correct.

23
Algorithm 3 Decode(HighX, LowX, HighZFlags, LowZFlags, PrevFailures, InputErrorAllowed)
Xcoords, Ycoords, Hooks Xlocs, Hooks Ylocs = ComputeHookAndErrorCoords(HighX, LowX,
HighZFlags, LowZFlags)
iflength(Hooks Xlocs) + length(Hooks Ylocs) >1then
Halt due to multiple failures
end if
iflength(Hooks Ylocs) = 1 then
if(length(Xcoords) mod 2 != length(Ycoords)) or (length(Ycoords) >1)then
Halt ωHalt if there is another error in addition to the hook error
end if
if((length(Ycoords) >0) and (Ycoords[0] != Hooks Ylocs)) then
Halt ωHalt if error string is not at the expected coordinate
end if
forx in Xcoords do
append (x, Hooks Ylocs[0]) to ZCorrs
end for
end if
iflength(Hooks Xlocs) = 1 then
if(length(Ycoords) mod 2 != length(Xcoords)) or (length(Ycoords) >1)then
Halt ωHalt if there is another error in addition to the hook error
end if
if((length(Xcoords) >0) and (Xcoords[0] != Hooks Xlocs)) then
Halt ωHalt if error string is not at the expected coordinate
end if
fory in Ycoords do
append (Hooks Xlocs[0], y) to ZCorrs
end for
end if
ifHooks Xlocs = 0 and Hooks Ylocs = 0 then
iflength(Ycoords) = n2then
iflength(Xcoords) = 0 then
forj in [0,..., n2→1]do
Append (0,j) to ZCorrs ωThe unﬂagged generalized weight 1 hook error
end for
end if
iflength(Xcoords) >0then
Halt due to uncorrectable error
end if
end if
iflength(Xcoords) = 1 and length(Ycoords) = 1 then
ZCorrs = (Xcoords[0], Ycoords[0])
end if
if(length(Xcoords) >1) or (4 >length(Ycoords) >1)then
Halt due to uncorrectable error
end if
end if
NextInputErrorAllowed = True
CurrFailures = 0
iflength(Xcoords) = 1 and length(YCoords) = 0 and length(Hooks Ylocs) = 0 then
NextInputErrorAllowed = False
CurrFailures = 1
end if
iflength(Ycoords) = 1 and length(XCoords) = 0 and length(Hooks Xlocs) = 0 then
CurrFailures = 1
end if
ifPrevFailures + CurrFailures >1then
Halt due to multiple failures
end if
if(CurrInputErrorAllowed = False) and (length(ZCorrs) >0)then
Halt due to multiple failures
end if
return (ZCorrs, NextInputErrorAllowed, CurrFailures)
FIG. S10.Circuit-level decoding for thed= 4concatenated iceberg QEC cycle.The decoder forZerrors which
satisfies Prop. 1. ‘PrevFailures’ and ‘InputErrorAllowed’ are passed from the previous QEC cycle, and the current QEC cycle
will return the analogous quantities ‘NextInputErrorAllowed’ and ‘Curr Failures’ to pass to the next QEC cycle, as well as
‘Zcorr’, the Z corrections for this QEC cycle.

24
FIG. S11.Simulated QEC infidelity and reject rate as a function of physical noise ratep.Circuit-levelStim
[46] simulations with two-qubit gate errors and measurement errors of a single round of QEC on the|+⟩⊗4input state. The
properties in Prop. 1 imply that the QEC rejection rate should scale asO(p2) and the infidelity asO(p3). Also shown are the
rejection rates and infidelities for two copies of theI 2code. We can see that for an effective two-qubit infidelity of≤4×10−3,
the fidelity and acceptance rate ford= 4 are improved relative tod= 2.
V: Logical gate benchmarking analysis and statistical procedure
Here, we provide more details about the logical cycle-benchmarking protocol described in the main text and in
Methods C and discuss the methods used for fitting and statistical analysis.
FIG. S12.Circuit diagrams for logical cycle-benchmarking experiments ofI 4code blocks.Both(a)intra-block
and(b)inter-block experiments are displayed with cycles consisting of Pauli-twirled 2Q-gate layers and syndrome extraction
rounds inserted every 8 cycles.
The general protocol operates as follows: suppose we haveklogical qubits distributed among one or more code
blocks on which the logical gates act (i.e.,k= 8 for twoI 4code blocks, even if the gates only couple one logical

25
qubit in each block). First, sample a set of logical Pauli observablesP samp from the uniform distribution overk-qubit
Paulis, and choose a set of cycle depthsL cycwith which to perform the experiment. For each corresponding fixed
cycle depthL∈ L cyc, initialize in a random eigenstate|ψ⟩PofP∈ P samp and applyLPauli-twirled gates along
with periodic syndrome extraction before measuring in the eigenbasis ofP. From the parity of the resulting bitstring,
extract an estimate of the expectation value of the output state with respect to the basis ofP. We view the constituent
logical cycle of this experiment as being the Pauli-twirled logical gates, with the syndrome extraction essentially just
a mechanism for detecting errors that occur during the cycle. However, note that the syndrome extraction can cause
up tok-qubit logical errors, which is why we sample over Pauli observables of sizekcorrespondingly.
The circuit diagrams for the experiments are displayed in Fig. S12. For the inter-block experiments, we use twoI 4
iceberg code blocks with a single 2Q gate across the blocks (U ZZ(π/2) or FANOUT) as the cycle. For the intra-block
experiments, we used a singleI 4code block and perform twoU ZZ(π/2) on both pairs of logical qubits per cycle.
For each set of experiments, we randomly sample 20 Pauli observables across all 4 or 8 logical qubits (for intra-block
or inter-block respectively). Each shot includes mid-circuit syndrome extraction round after every eight gate cycles
and concludes with a terminal SE round. This frequency of syndrome extraction was chosen as a rough optimization
for logical gate fidelity considering the competing factors of (a) very-frequent syndrome extraction introducing extra
memory and gate errors versus (b) infrequent syndrome extraction leading to combinatorially more opportunities for
faults to occur per detector region.
In order to obtain an estimate of the Pauli fidelityf Pfrom the measured Pauli expectation values, we employ a
maximum-likelihood based approach. For each depthL∈ L cycand Pauli observableP, we performNrepetitions of
the corresponding logical CB circuit with Pauli layers randomized per shot. After postselecting on outcomes without
detected errors, we acceptN Lshots. For each accepted shot, we record the parity of the final measured bits to obtain
the Pauli eigenvalue outcome
XP,s(L)∈ {+1,−1}, s= 1, . . . , N L.
In order to extract the Pauli fidelity, we fit the distribution ofX P,sto a Bernoulli model. First, define a “match” event
as whenX P,s(L) is equal to the eigenvalue of the initial Pauli eigenstate,λ |ψ⟩, and letK P(L) be the total number
of such events across theN Lretained shots. For fixedPandL, we model the observed outcomes as i.i.d. Bernoulli
trials with probability
qP(L) = Pr 
XP,s(L) =λ |ψ⟩
.
Equivalently,K P(L) is a binomial random variable with meanN Land varianceq P(L). We then relate the Pauli
expectation valueµ P(L) to the “match” probability by
µP(L) =E[X P,s(L)] = (+1)·q P(L) + (−1)·[1−q P(L)] = 2q P(L)−1.
In cycle benchmarking, the expectation value of each Pauli decays exponentially with the number of cyclesL
(assuming the probability of each cycle introducing an error is approximately i.i.d.) [16], that is,
µP(L) =A PfL
P,
wheref P∈[0,1] represents the Pauli fidelity associated with the effective logical Pauli channel of one cycle, and
AP∈[0,1] is the amplitude parameter that captures the SPAM error for preparing an eigenstate ofP. Since
qP(L) = (1 +µ P(L))/2, this gives the binomial success probability
qP(L) =1 +A PfL
P
2.
We fit each Pauli individually with its own amplitude parameterA Pand Pauli fidelityf P.
Given observed match counts{K P(L)} L∈L cycand accepted shot counts{N L}L∈L cyc, define the likelihood function
for parameters (A P, fP) by
L(A P, fP) =Y
L∈L cycNL
KL(P)1 +A PfL
P
2KP(L)1−A PfL
P
2NL−KP(L)
.
Dropping binomial coefficient terms that do not depend on the fit parameters, the negative log-likelihood is
−logL(A P, fP) =−X
L∈L cyc"
KP(L) log1 +A PfL
P
2
+ (N L−K P(L)) log1−A PfL
P
2#
.

26
We obtain the maximum-likelihood estimates
(ˆAP,ˆfP) = argminAP,fP
−logL(A P, fP)
,
subject to constraints that ensure that 0< q P(L)<1 for all fitted cycle depthsL. This yields the fitted Pauli fidelities
ˆfPthat we plot in Fig. S13.
The average of all fitted Pauli fidelities ˆfPreconstructs the estimated process fidelity of the cycle:
Fpro=1
|Psamp|X
P∈P sampˆfP.
From the (cycle) process fidelity, we compute the process fidelity of the two-qubit sub-cycle by takingF pro, 2Q =
(Fpro)1/n, wherenis the number of 2Q gates in the cycle (n= 1 for inter-block gates andn= 2 for intra-block
UZZ(π/2)). We estimate the gate average fidelity from the two-qubit process fidelity through the formulaF avg=
(4Fpro, 2Q + 1)/5 [47] and report the results for each experiment in Table IV. Corresponding results for acceptance
rates are reported in Fig. S14 and Table V.
In order to obtain uncertainties on the estimate of the gate-average fidelities, we resample from the binomial
distribution for each sequence depth and Pauli and fit the bootstrapped expectation-value decays using the MLE
method. From the fitted Pauli fidelities across 500 resamples, we obtain a bootstrap distribution of the gate average
fidelity and quantify uncertainty on the empirical estimate using the 1σ(68%) quantile around the bootstrap mean.
We report the results in Table IV.
FIG. S13. Fitted exponential decays of logical Pauli expectation values as a function of sequence depth for the intra-block
UZZ(π
2), inter-blockU ZZ(π/2), and inter-block FANOUT cycle-benchmarking experiments. Measured expectation values and
fitted exponential decays are shown for each sampled 4-qubit Pauli string (for intra-block tests) and 8-qubit Pauli string (for
inter-block tests). Each cycle consists of Pauli-twirled logical two-qubit gate layers followed by a round of syndrome extraction
every 8 layers. Error bars indicate the 68% Wilson confidence intervals.
Experiment Gate average infidelity
Intra-blockU ZZ(π
2) 1.0+2
−4×10−4
Inter-blockU ZZ(π
2) 1.2+5
−4×10−4
Inter-block FANOUT 1.1+4
−4×10−4
TABLE IV. Estimated gate average infidelity for various logical cycle-benchmarking tests with 1σconfidence intervals obtained
through bootstrap resampling.
VI: Partially fault-tolerant gates betweenI kcode blocks
A convenient feature of the iceberg code is that logicalU ZZ(θ) andU XX(θ) gates can be implemented with single
physical two-qubit gates within an iceberg code block. However, the same cannot be said for logical two-qubit

27
FIG. S14.Acceptance rates of logical gate benchmarking experiments.Acceptance rate as function of cycle depth for
the intra-blockU ZZ(π/2), inter-blockU ZZ(π/2), and inter-block FANOUT logical cycle-benchmarking tests. Numerical results
are tabulated in Table V. Pink dashed curves indicate the average acceptance rate at each depth.
Experiment Cycle depths Total shots (each depth) Overall accept rate
Intra-blockU ZZ(π
2) [8, 16, 32, 64] 4000 [.87(6),.83(4),.71(5),.45(9)]
Inter-blockU ZZ(π
2) [8, 16, 32, 48] 6000 [.80(3),.70(4),.58(5),.44(3)]
Inter-block FANOUT [8, 16, 32, 48] 6000 [.80(5),.66(7),.50(5),.41(3)]
TABLE V. Acceptance rates across various logical cycle-benchmarking (CB) tests showing depths, total shots per depth, and
acceptance rates.
rotations between two disjoint code blocks. The underlying reason is that, if one thinks of the two-qubit Pauli
operators appearing in each rotation as being composed of the product of two one-qubit Pauli operators, one has
ZiZj=ZiZn−1ZjZn−1=ZiZjwithin a single code block; whereas the correspondingZ n−1operators do not cancel
when the logical qubitsq iandq jare in different code blocks and therefore the logical rotation is four-body.
One method to execute this four-body rotation with some amount of fault-tolerance is to use the well-known
decomposition of theU ZZ(θ) gate in terms of CX gates and the operatorU Z(θ) = exp 
−iθ
2Z
, that is,U ZZ(θ) =
CX12UZ(θ)2CX12(indexing the two qubits involved as 1 and 2). Treating all operators in this expression as logical
and using the fact that fact that logical CX gates can be applied transversally in the iceberg code (that is, the logical
CX operator can be implemented by broadcasting the physical CX operator between the respective physical qubits
in each code block), this decomposition can be implemented by the circuit gadget shown on the left-hand side of
Fig. S15a.
This gadget is pFT: any single Pauli error on the CX gates is detected in one of the two code blocks. However,
it fails to be fully FT for the same reason that theU ZZ(θ) gate alone fails to be FT in the iceberg code; namely,
weight-2XX,Y Y, orZZerrors on theU ZZ(θ) are undetectable. The fault-tolerance can be improved by rewriting
the circuit in a logically equivalent way by using SWAP gates to move the location of theU ZZ(θ) gate so that it is
supported on both code blocks, as in Fig. S15. The resulting circuit gadgets on the right-hand side forU ZZ(θ) and
UXX(θ) have the desirable property that the non-FT rotation gate now spans between code blocks, with the effect
that only theZZerrors remain undetectable on the physicalU ZZ(θ) gate. Note thatU ZZ(θ) is the only physically
implemented two-qubit gate in the QCCD architecture, so the corresponding undetectedXXerror on theU XX(θ)
gate is physically aZZerror on the underlyingU ZZ(θ) gate as well.
The Pauli error model measured for the two-qubit gates on Helios [8] has negligible contribution from theXXand
Y Ychannels, with essentially all weight-2 errors being ofZZtype. Therefore, this construction does not necessarily
substantially improve the fault-tolerance of a practical implementation of these gates on Helios. However, we expect
that they may be useful for iceberg code implementations on other devices that may have a different Pauli error
model.
In Fig. 2a in the main text we also present the circuit decomposition of the inter-block FANOUT gate, which enacts
a global logical parity flipQ
iXion one code block controlled by a logical qubit in another code block. The intuition
underlying this circuit gadget is that the global logical parity flip can be enacted by applyingX 0Xn−1on the second
code block, and that controlling on logical qubitcis equivalent to physically controlling on bothcandq n−1. It is
straightforward to verify that this circuit gadget appliesX 0Xn−1=Q
iXiif and only if qubitcis in the logical| 1⟩

28
FIG. S15.Partially fault-tolerant gates between code blocks. (a)Starting on the left-hand-side with the circuit gadget
corresponding to the CX-U Z(θ)-CX decomposition of theU ZZ, one can insert SWAP gates to move theU ZZ(θ) operator so
that it spans between blocks. With a judicious choice of decomposition of the SWAP into CX gates, and using the fact that
PauliZoperators on the control qubit commute with the CX gate, one arrives at the decomposition on the right-hand side.
(b)The analogous series of steps for the circuit gadget implementing the logicalU XX(θ) between code blocks, noting that
PauliXoperators on the target qubit also commute with the CX gate. In all circuits above,t=q 0is the iceberg top qubit
andb=q n−1is the iceberg bottom qubit on each code block, with brackets indicating qubits that are in the same code block
and indices labeling the first or second code block.
state.
The FANOUT gate is interesting for several reasons: first, that it is FT even to all single weight-2 gate errors,
unlike the pFTU ZZgates. Second, it allows distribution of entanglement between code blocks with a number of gates
(four) that does not scale with the size of the code blocks, unlike a transversal CX construction. A convenient aspect
of the construction is that the precise way in which it distributes entanglement among code blocks aligns exactly
with efficient logical GHZ state preparation among manyI kcode blocks as described in the main text and explained
further in Sec. VIII.
Although we do not provide constructions here, there are clear extensions of the FANOUT gate to other interesting
FT gates that have constant overhead (i.e., with number of gates not scaling with code block size): namely, one can
control on, or target, a specific subset of qubits with simple modifications of the choices of CX gates applied.
VII: Unencoded GHZ state fidelity estimation
To measure the fidelity of the physical GHZ state, we use a state verification scheme introduced in Ref. [48]. A
state verification involves constructing an ensemble of pass/fail tests such that the average passing probability reveals
information of the closeness to the ideal state. Specifically, one constructs a verification operator Ω =P
lplΠlwherep l
is the probability of performing a pass/fail test{Π l,I−Π l}, which is a two-outcome Positive Operator-Valued Measure
(POVM). As shown in Ref. [48], when the verification operator is homogeneous, i.e., Ω =|Ψ⟩⟨Ψ|+β(I−|Ψ⟩⟨Ψ|) where
|Ψ⟩is the target state andβis the second largest eigenvalue of Ω, the fidelityF:=⟨Ψ|ρ|Ψ⟩between the prepared
stateρand the target state|Ψ⟩is related to the average passing probability as
F=Tr [Ωρ]−β
1−β.(S1)
Therefore, measuring the fidelity amounts to measuring the average passing probability of the ensemble of tests
Tr [Ωρ].

29
For the GHZ state|GHZ⟩= (1/√
2)(|0···0⟩+|1···1⟩), Ref. [48] found that
Ω =|GHZ⟩⟨GHZ|+1
3(I− |GHZ⟩⟨GHZ|)
=1
3PZ+2
3 
1
2N−1X
XYPXY!
,
whereP Z=|0···0⟩⟨0···0|+|1···1⟩⟨1···1|andP XYis a projector onto the +1 eigenspace of an XY-Pauli stabilizer
of|GHZ⟩as defined in Eq. (12) of Ref. [48]. Passing aP Ztest means the outcome is either|0⟩⊗Nor|1⟩⊗Nwhile
passing aP XYtest means the corresponding Pauli expectation value is +1. Operationally, Tr [Ωρ] is obtained by
performing theP Ztest with probability 1/3 and with probability 2/3, uniformly sampling aP XYtest to perform
(there are 2N−1of them). Sinceβ= 1/3 in this case, we can obtain the fidelity asF= (3/2)Tr [Ωρ]−(1/2).
It is worth noting that the sampling cost of this procedure is slightly lower than that of Direct Fidelity Estimation
(DFE) [49]. Recall that DFE samples a stabilizer uniformly at random and measures the expectation value of that
stabilizer.Fis obtained by averaging over all measurements. Since each observable is a Pauli operator that takes
value±1 for every shot, sampling and measuring a stabilizer for each shot corresponds to an i.i.d. Bernoulli trial with
outcomes±1. Hence, the variance of the estimate is (1−F)(F+ 1). However, as shown in Ref. [48], the variance of
the fidelity obtained via Eq. (S1) is (1−F)
F+β
1−β
. In this case whereβ= 1/3, the variance is (1−F)(F+ 0.5),
marginally lower than that of DFE.
In the experiment, we used a total of 1000 shots for each fidelity estimation, where 1/3 of the shots were allocated
toP Ztests and the rest forP XYtests. For each shot allocated to theP XYtest, we sampled and measured a different
XY-Pauli stabilizer of|GHZ⟩. The average passing probabilities of theP ZandP XYtests are weighted by 1/3 and
2/3 correspondingly to obtain Tr [Ωρ], which is then used to deduce fidelity via Eq. (S1).
VIII: Logical GHZ state preparation ind= 2iceberg codes
In a single globalI kcode, the physical state on thenqubits encoding the logical| GHZ k⟩state takes a particularly
simple form| GHZ k⟩=|Φ⟩ tb⊗|GHZ n−2⟩where|Φ⟩ tb=1√
2(|00⟩ tb+|11⟩ tb) is a Bell pair of the top and bottom qubits
t=q 0andb=q n−1respectively. As a result, the logical GHZ state can be directly prepared fault-tolerantly by
preparing the physical GHZ state on the system qubits (via the same log-depth initialization gadget that would be
applied to prepare the| 0⟩⊗kstate) and the Bell pair onq 0, qn−1independently. We demonstrate the state preparation
gadget in Fig. S16. We note that the Bell pair state preparation is FT since the undetectable weight-2 errors on the
CX gate stabilize the Bell state.
As discussed, we perform single-shot fidelity estimation by reading out the GHZ stabilizerQ
iXinon-destructively
simultaneously with obtaining all other stabilizers ZiZi+1from destructive readout in theZbasis, using the fact
thatQ
iXicommutes withS X. We measureQ
iXiby noting that it is stabilizer-equivalent toX 0Xn−1, which we
measure directly by coupling to a single ancilla qubit. To make the implementation FT against state preparation and
measurement (SPAM) errors, we repeat the non-destructive measurement ofQ
iXitwice and discard shots in which
the parity does not agree between the two measurements. Subsequently measuringS Xnon-destructively and reading
out each qubit in theZbasis obtainsS Zand all ZiZi+1. Shots withS X=−1 orS Z=−1 are postselected out and
the logical GHZ state fidelity is then estimated as the fraction of accepted shots that prepared +1 eigenstates of bothQ
iXiand all ZiZi+1. This procedure is demonstrated in the general case of possibly multiple code blocks in Fig. 2c.
In Table VI we report the values that appear in Fig. 1e, excluding results from GHZ state preparation in concate-
nated iceberg codes, to be discussed in Sec. IX.
IX: Logical GHZ state preparation in theI 8◦ I6code
The stabilizers of the 48-logical-qubit GHZ state| GHZ 48⟩encoded inI 8◦I6are generated by theI 8◦I6stabilizers,
the pairwise product of all logical Z operators Zi1,j1Zi2,j2, and the product of all logicalXoperatorsQi=6
i=1Qj=8
j=1Xi,j.
This last stabilizer can be rewritten asQi=6
i=1Qj=8
j=1Xi,j=X 0,0X7,0X0,9X7,9.To see this, observe that the product
of X operators forming a rectangle on the four corners of the 8×10 grid will anti-commute with all the Zi,j.To
prepare the global GHZ state, we begin by fault-tolerantly preparing the| 0⟩⊗48state via the “Many Hypercubes”

30
FIG. S16.Logical GHZ state preparation in a globalI kcode.The state preparation separately prepares a Bell pair
betweenq 0,qn−1and a physical GHZ state on the remaining qubits in log-depth following the same construction as Fig. S2.
Experiment Fidelity Total shots Leakage accept rate Overall accept rate
N= 48 unencoded.79(2) 1000 – –
N= 48 unencoded, LH.74(2) 1000.966+5
−6 .966+5
−6
I48 .983+4
−5 2000 –.42(1)
I48, LH.986+3
−4 3000.908(5).392(9)
12×I 4 .992(3) 3000 –.288(8)
12×I 4, LH.998+1
−3 3000.683+8
−9 .210+8
−7
N= 60 unencoded.78(2) 1000 – –
N= 60 unencoded, LH.76(2) 1000.956+6
−7 .956+6
−7
I60 .976+5
−6 2000 –.42(1)
I60, LH.980(4) 3000.650(6).389(9)
15×I 4 .997+2
−3 3000 –.198(7)
15×I 4, LH 1.000+0
−2 3000.540(9).146+7
−6
N= 94 unencoded.64(2) 1000 – –
N= 94 unencoded, LH.61(2) 1000.89(1).89(1)
I94 .87(1) 2000 –.36(1)
I94, LH.949+7
−9 3000.650(9).25(1)
TABLE VI. Logical distance-two and unencoded GHZ experiment results. As before, LH refers to leakage-heralded measurement
and the corresponding leakage accept rate is reported in the third column.
state preparation circuit [7]. This state possesses all theZstabilizers of| GHZ 48⟩and allXI 8◦ I6stabilizers. To
transform the state into one stabilized byQi=6
i=1Qj=8
j=1Xi,jas well, we fault-tolerantly measure this operator, which
will return±1 eigenvalue. If the eigenvalue is−1, we virtually apply a Pauli correction to flip it to +1 by updating
the Pauli frame, completing the GHZ preparation procedure.
We now describe how to fault-tolerantly measure the global logicalXoperator. For anI 8code, the logicalX
operatorQ6
i=1Xi=X 0X7is the stabilizer of a GHZ state on all six logical qubits. Therefore, we can use anI 8
ancilla encoding a GHZ state to measure theI 8◦ I6operatorQi=6
i=1Qj=8
j=1Xi,j=X 0,0X7,0X0,9X7,9by performing
transversal CX gates between theI 6GHZ state and the top and bottom data qubit iceberg blocks ofI 8◦ I6, shown
in Fig. S17. However, this is not FT becauseXerrors on the lower-level GHZ state can undetectably propagate

31
to weight-two errors on the data qubits. To fix this, we extract theZstabilizers of| GHZ 6⟩, which allows us to
locate single-qubitXerrors. For instance,X 1will flip the stabilizersZ 1Zifor 2≤i≤6. This will allow us to turn
generalized weight-two errors into generalized weight-one errors (see Defs. 1 and 2). The only single-qubitXerrors
that are indistinguishable areX 0andX 7, but these are equivalent up to a stabilizer of the GHZ state. We extract
these stabilizers by measuring transversally in theZbasis and extract theXGHZ stabilizer via physical ancillae and
theI 6stabilizer via the EDZ gadget to get the circuit in Fig. S5b. Altogether, we get the FT measurement circuit in
Fig. S18, which must be repeated once to detect a logical measurement error in the lower-levelI 6block. If the two
measurements disagree by a logical operator ofI 6, we postselect.
After preparing the GHZ state, we measure in either theZandXbases and use the expectation values of the
logical observables to estimate the fidelity of this logical GHZ state via a union bound as in Ref. [50]. The entire
circuit consisting of the state preparation of zero, the measurement of the global logicalXoperator, and a transversal
X- orZ-basis measurement has a fault-distance of four, so we perform correlated decoding over the entire circuit
volume, correcting a single error occurring anywhere in the circuit and postselecting if two or more errors occur. This
implies that this procedure should have an infidelity ofO(p3) and a discard rate ofO(p2) with respect to the physical
error rate. This is illustrated in circuit-level simulations of this protocol in Stim, shown in Fig. S19 in the case of the
Zbasis. The scaling in theXbasis is similar.
On Helios, we prepared the 48 logical qubit GHZ state and then either measured in theXbasis and theZbasis.
We ran 4000 shots in either basis and used eq. (4) from [50] to upper bound the infidelity of the state. Since we
correct any single error including during state preparations (as opposed to preselecting on these preparations) there
are only two acceptance rates: leakage acceptance and total acceptace. These are given in Table VII.
X1
X1
X1 X/vextendsingle/vextendsingleGHZ 6/angbracketrightbig
1
FIG. S17.Non-fault-tolerantly measuring the global logicalXstabilizer of| GHZ 48⟩.A GHZ state encoded inI 6
can be used to measure the global logicalXstabilizer of| GHZ 48⟩. We show an example of non-fault-tolerance where a single
X1error on the lower-level GHZ state can undetectably spread to a weight-2 error on the data code block.
ZX|+→X/vextendsingle/vextendsingleGHZ6/angbracketrightbigX0X7 X0X7 EDZ
|+→
1
FIG. S18.Fault-tolerantly measuring the global logicalXstabilizer of| GHZ 48⟩.The transversalZmeasurement of
the lower-level GHZ state will allow for the correction of anXhook error from the ancilla. To be robust to two errors, this
circuit must be repeated again since two measurement errors could cause a logical measurement error of theX 0X7operator of
the lower-levelI 6block.

32
FIG. S19.Simulated GHZ Z basis infidelity and reject rate as a function of physical noise ratep.This data is
derived from circuit-level simulations performed in Stim [46]. A two-qubit depolarizing error and bit flip error are inserted after
every two-qubit gate and measurement respectively with strengthp. Because one error anywhere in the circuit is corrected,
the total rejection rate should scale asO(p2). Fault tolerance to distance 4 further implies that the infidelity should scale as
O(p3). Performing linear regression on the simulated rejection rate and infidelity to estimate these exponents demonstrates
this scaling.
Experiment Leakage acceptance Overall accept rate Accepted shots Errors
I8◦ I6(X Basis).372+8
−6 .53(1) 790 0
I8◦ I6(Z Basis).462+7
−8 .67+2
−1 1233 0
TABLE VII. Experimental data ford= 4 48 logical qubit GHZ state experiments in theI 8◦I6code. 4000 shots were submitted
in each basis. Leakage and overall acceptance rates are given. Of the 790 accepted shots in the X basis and 1233 accepted
shots in the Z basis, no errors occurred.
X: Data from preliminary XY model experiments in theI 50code
Prior to executing theI 64codeXYmodel experiments in the main text, we performed several preliminary experi-
ments using theI 50code for theXYmodel on a 2×5×5 lattice with periodic boundary conditions (Fig. S20a). These
experiments were aimed at assessing the optimal configuration (in terms of achievable circuit fidelity) of a relatively
sparse number of syndrome extraction rounds. Three different configurations were studied. In the first, we extracted
both syndromesS XandS Zat both the midpoint of the circuit as well as at the end of the circuit (S Xextraction
+ midpoint SE). In the second, both syndromes were extracted at the midpoint, but onlyS Zwas extracted at the
end of the circuit (midpoint SE). In the third and final, no midcircuit syndrome extraction was performed but both
syndromes were extracted at the end of the circuit (S Xextraction). We did not use leakage-heralded measurement
in any of theI 50experiments.
We report the results of these experiments in terms of the obtained estimates of fidelity and acceptance rates in
Fig. S20b, Fig. S20c and Tables VIII,IX,X. The first two configurations demonstrated break-even performance across
the range of Trotter steps studied, with the third performing similarly ats= 2 tos= 6 but failing to demonstrate
any clear improvement in fidelity ats= 8 ands= 10. For this reason, we chose the second configuration (midpoint
SE) for theI 64experiments in the main text, which performed similarly to the first configuration (S Xextraction +
midpoint SE) but with approximately a factor of two improvement in acceptance rate (implying that terminalS X
extraction tends to typically detect many PauliZ-type memory errors induced by the gadget itself that do not affect
terminal measurement in theZbasis).

33
FIG. S20.Mirror benchmarking of encoded Hamiltonian simulation in theI 50code. (a)The natural edge-5-coloring
of the 2×5×5 periodic lattice. Edges connecting the periodic boundaries in the latter two directions are not shown to reduce
visual clutter, but the corresponding gates are included in the circuits executed, as in the main text.(b)Fidelity estimate as
a function of total Trotter steps in the full mirrored circuit.(c)Acceptance rate as a function of total Trotter steps in the full
mirrored circuit.
Experiment Total Trotter steps ,sFidelity estimate Total shots (×102)
I50,SXextraction + midpoint SE [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] [.77(4),.42(6),.26+7
−6,.21+5
−4,.07+4
−3] [5, 5, 5, 7, 8]
I50, midpoint SE [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] [.73+3
−4,.59(5),.29(5),.15+5
−4,.08+4
−3] [4, 4, 4, 4, 5]
I50,SXextraction [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] [.74(4),.48(5),.24(5),.07+3
−2,.03+2
−1] [2.5, 2.5, 2.5, 3, 4]
Unencoded [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] [.50(2),.22(1),.11(1),.066+9
−8,.021+6
−5] [8, 8, 8, 8, 8]
TABLE VIII. Fidelity and shot counts across 50 logical qubitXYmodel quantum simulation experiments at different numbers
of total Trotter stepss. The five values reported for fidelity estimate and total shots correspond to the five different total
Trotter steps respectively.
Experiment Overall accept rate
I50,SXextraction + midpoint SE [.25(2),.12+2
−1,.09(1),.10(1),.07(1)]
I50, midpoint SE [.39(2),.25(2),.21(2),.17(2),.13+2
−1]
I50,SXextraction [.43(3),.38(3),.28(3),.29(3),.30(2)]
Unencoded –
TABLE IX. Overall acceptance rates across 50 logical qubitXYmodel quantum simulation experiments. The five values
reported for acceptance rate again correspond to the five different total Trotter steps.
Experiment SPAM parameterAEffective average 2Q infidelity ˜ϵ 2Q
I50,SXextraction + midpoint SE 1.32(9) 8.6(7)×10−4
I50, midpoint SE 1.2(2) 8(1)×10−4
I50,SXextraction 1.5(2) 11(1)×10−4
Unencoded 1.05(7) 11.9(6)×10−4
TABLE X. Fit parametersA, ˜ϵ 2Qobtained from fitting the modelF(N gates) =A(1−5
4˜ϵ2Q)Ngatesto the survival probability as
a function of number of logical gates in 50 logical qubitXYmodel quantum simulation experiments. The SPAM parametersA
all exceed 1, which we take as an general indication of minor deviations from the exponential-decay model. (discussed further
below).
XI: Data fromI 64XY model experiments
We report here the explicit values appearing in Fig. 3d in Tables XI, XII along with additional information about
shot counts and leakage acceptance rates. As explained in Methods A and plotted in Fig. 3d, we calculate effective

34
average two-qubit gate fidelities for each experiment by fitting the simple modelF(N gates) =A(1−5
4˜ϵ2Q)Ngatesto
the survival probability as a function of number of logical 2Q gates. In Table XIII we report both fit parameters
obtained by this method. We note that in general we do not expect logical survival probability to decay exponentially
on theoretical grounds since logical errors are in general not caused by i.i.d. gate errors but can result from multiple
faults aggregated across the physical gates. However, empirically the survival probability appears to be well-modeled
by exponential decay and we find the ˜ϵ 2Qthus extracted to be an informative metric for the effective gate error. One
explanation is simply that at shallow circuit depth, the leading contribution to logical errors are i.i.d.ZZerrors on
individual physical gates. For deep circuits, considering the coarse resolution of total number of Trotter steps, there
is a rapid transition to the regime where multiple errors typically occur and syndromes appear effectively random, in
which case acceptance is not strongly correlated to particular patterns of errors. This is consistent with the acceptance
rate reported for the deepest circuits in theI 64experiments which approach a plateau around 12.5% acceptance rate,
which would be expected for three random syndrome values. We emphasize that the effective two-qubit gate error
obtained by this procedure is not directly comparable to the bare component infidelity of the two-qubit gate, as it
also includes additional overheads such as memory errors (see also Methods A). Rather, it should be compared to
the effective 2Q gate infidelity calculated from full-circuit benchmarks such as mirror benchmarking as in [8], which
yielded ˜ϵ 2Q= 20(2)×10−4. We note also that the full-circuit metric in Ref. [8] used maximally entanglingU ZZ(π/2)
gates and arbitrary connectivity; in this work, we use half-maximally entangling gates and a circuit with more local
three-dimensional connectivity, so the fairer comparison point is the ˜ϵ 2Q= 10.7(5)×10−4obtained in our unencoded
experiment.
For all encoded experiments in this section, we terminate shots early if an error is detected during midcircuit
syndrome extraction. It is possible that errors can be detected midcircuit due to leakage of data qubits leading
to nontrivial syndromes. However, we did not obtain leakage information for the data qubits in shots that termi-
nated early. Therefore, leakage acceptance rates are computed only with respect to shots that survived midcircuit
postselection and reached terminal measurement.
Experiment Total Trotter steps ,sFidelity estimate Total shots (×103)
I64, LH [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] [.69(2),.40(3),.22+4
−3,.08(2),.03+2
−1] [2, 2, 2.2, 4.4, 4.8]
I64 [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] [.55(2),.27+3
−2,.08(2),.034+8
−7,.005+4
−2] [1.6, 1.6, 1.8, 4, 4.4]
Unencoded, LH [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] [.43(2),.14(1),.057+9
−8,.026+6
−5,.009+5
−3] [1.2, 1.2, 1.5, 1.8, 2]
Unencoded [2, 4, 6, 8, 10] [.24+2
−1,.10(1),.029+7
−5,.010+4
−3,.005+3
−2] [0.8, 0.8, 0.8, 0.8, 0.8]
TABLE XI. Fidelity and shot counts across 64 logical qubitXYmodel quantum simulation experiments at different numbers
of total Trotter stepss. LH refers to the use of leakage-heralded measurement on Helios. The five values reported for fidelity
estimate and total shots correspond to the five different total Trotter steps respectively.
Experiment Leakage accept rate Overall accept rate
I64, LH [.72+1
−2,.59(2),.42(2),.33(1),.26(1)] [.232+10
−9,.125+8
−7,.061(5),.049(3),.032+3
−2]
I64 – [.25(1),.20(1),.137(8), .142+6
−5,.125(5)]
Unencoded, LH [.80(1),.64(1),.50(1),.42(1),.32(1)] [.80(1),.64(1),.50(1),.42(1),.32(1)]
Unencoded – –
TABLE XII. Leakage and overall acceptance rates across 64 logical qubitXYmodel quantum simulation experiments. LH
refers to the use of leakage-heralded measurement on Helios and the five values reported for acceptance rates again correspond
to the five different total Trotter steps.
XII: Alternative fault-tolerant preparation of resource states
The FT preparation of diverse resource states is fundamental for QEC: they can be consumed to perform Steane-
or Knill-style QEC, to enable long-range interactions between logical qubit blocks via teleportation, to perform non-
Clifford gates, or to achieve addressability in high-rate codes. We present three FT preparation techniques alternative
to Goto’s FT preparation (Goto) of concatenated hypercubes code [7]: a projective method (Projective) analogous
to the typical initialization of surface codes, flag at origin (F@O) [25], and the verification of a non-FT state with a

35
Experiment SPAM parameterAEffective average 2Q infidelity ˜ϵ 2Q
I64, LH 1.4(1) 7.1(6)×10−4
I64 1.5(2) 10.2(8)×10−4
Unencoded, LH 1.16(9) 10.5(5)×10−4
Unencoded.69(5) 10.7(4)×10−4
TABLE XIII. Fit parametersA, ˜ϵ 2Qobtained from fitting the modelF(N gates) =A(1−5
4˜ϵ2Q)Ngatesto the survival probability
as a function of number of logical gates in 64 logical qubitXYmodel quantum simulation experiments.
flag circuit optimized with integer linear programming (ILP). We then compare the logical error rates and acceptance
rates of the resulting circuits for theI 8◦ I6under a simple circuit-level noise model.
We analyze the preparation of three logical resource states: a logical| ¯0⟩⊗48state for initializing an algorithm or
performing Steane-style QEC in Fig. S21, a tensor product of 48 randomly chosen logical| ¯0⟩and| ¯+⟩states for
injecting addressable logical Hadamard gates as in [7] in Fig. S22, and random CSS state preparation on all logical
qubits in Fig. S23. The noise model inserts bit-flip (phase-flip) channels after the initialization of every qubit in
|0⟩(|+⟩) and before the measurement of every ancillary and flag qubit in theZ(X) basis, and inserts a two-qubit
depolarizing channel after every two-qubit gate. All noise channels have the same error ratep.
For the three states we report the logical error rateP L(left plots), the post-discard rate (middle plot), and the
pre-discard rate (right plot). Thepre-discard rateis the probability of discarding the state during preparation,
upon detection of one or more faults. This should happen with probabilityO(p), because all state preparation
protocols considered in this work are designed to abort on any fault. Thepost-discard rateis the probability of
discarding a pre-accepted state when performing ideal noiseless decoding on the shots obtained when the state is
measured destructively. Such a discard would occur if, for example, the prepared state is used to perform Steane error
correction and an uncorrectable error is detected. A post-discard is expected to occur with probabilityO(p2), because
at least two faults are required to produce a detectable but not correctable error when ideally decoding a distance-4
code. Finally, thelogical error ratehere is the probability of an error which would result in a large-scale computation
continuing with an unintentionally altered state. Such errors are equivalent to a logical operator anticommuting with
one that stabilizes the prepared state, or differ from such an operator on one qubit. For a distance-4 code, this is
expected to require three faults to occur, and therefore happen with probabilityO(p3). The relevant logical operators
are: ¯Zifor the| ¯0⟩⊗48state, ¯Zifor the logical qubitsiprepared in| ¯0⟩and ¯Xjfor the logical qubitsjprepared in| ¯+⟩
in the random tensor product of these states, and ¯Zi¯Zi+1and ¯X⊗48for the logical GHZ state.
Looking at the three figures, we first confirm the expected asymptotic scalings for all preparation methods and
states. For the preparation of| ¯0⟩⊗48in Fig. S21 we find that the ILP method provides the best logical error rate and
post-discard rates, followed by Goto’s method. F@O performs comparably to the Projective method in logical error
rate and pre-discard rate, but presents better post-discard rate. It is worth noting that Goto and ILP methods are
specific to this state while F@O and the Projective methods are general constructions for every logical CSS state. We
can then use them to produce FT state preparation circuits for the random tensor product of| ¯0⟩and| ¯+⟩and the GHZ
state. Since these states are stabilized by logical operators in theZas well as theXbases, we destructively measure
in these two bases, obtaining one logical error rate and post-discard rate for each basis (note that the pre-discard rate
is independent of this measurement basis). For both states in Figs. S22 and S23 we observe that the natural bias in
the Projective method reflects in better results in theZbasis. The F@O method performs worse in logical error rate
and post-discard rate, but provides a significantly better pre-discard rate.
These results showcase the great diversity of QEC strategies that can be implemented on an all-to-all connectivity
device, each one being beneficial in some situations over others. For example, the ILP method performs well but
requires a large computational problem to be solved for each logical state to be prepared; Goto state preparation
performs well for the specific state| ¯0⟩⊗kand for higher-distance concatenated codes where ILP cannot yet be used;
F@O and Projective methods can be implemented in polynomial time for arbitrary CSS logical states with F@O being
more useful when good pre-discard rate is preferable over a good logical error rate. This is the case when, for example,
at some point in the computation the resource state is needed but the available qubit resources on the hardware are
so scarce than the entire computation needs to wait until the state preparation attempt is accepted.

36
10−410−310−2
p10−810−710−610−510−410−310−210−1PL
F@O,Z,β= 2.85±0.02
Projective, Z,β= 3.11±0.02
ILP,Z,β= 3.06±0.05
Goto,Z,β= 2.75±0.17
10−410−310−2
p10−1100Ppre−discard
F@O,Z,β= 0.95±0.01
Projective, Z,β= 0.92±0.02
ILP,Z,β= 0.97±0.01
Goto,Z,β= 0.97±0.01
10−410−310−2
p10−410−310−210−1100Ppost−discard
F@O,Z,β= 1.87±0.03
Projective, Z,β= 1.89±0.03
ILP,Z,β= 1.96±0.01
Goto,Z,β= 1.96±0.01
FIG. S21.Performance of logical state preparation for the encoded all-zero state| ¯0⟩⊗48.We compare the flag-
at-origin (Sec. XII 2), projective preparation (Sec. XII 1), ILP-based (Sec. XII 3) methods, and the circuit obtained using the
method described in Ref. [7]. The left panel shows the logical error rate conditioned on acceptance, while the middle and right
panels respectively show the pre- and post-discard probabilities arising from flag-based and syndrome-based postselection.
Data are plotted against physical error ratep. Dashed lines indicate power-law fits in the low error-rate regime, and the fitted
exponentβcharacterizes the effective scaling of the logical error rate, as pre-(post-) discard rates, and shaded areas indicate
95% Wilson confidence intervals.
10−410−310−2
p10−810−710−610−510−410−310−210−1PL
F@O,X,β= 2.87±0.05
F@O,Z,β= 2.95±0.03
Projective, X,β= 3.27±0.02
Projective, Z,β= 2.94±0.06
10−410−310−2
p10−1100Ppre−discard
F@O,X,β= 0.95±0.01
F@O,Z,β= 0.95±0.01
Projective, X,β= 0.88±0.02
Projective, Z,β= 0.88±0.02
10−410−310−2
p10−410−310−210−1100Ppost−discard
F@O,X,β= 1.89±0.03
F@O,Z,β= 1.88±0.03
Projective, X,β= 1.94±0.01
Projective, Z,β= 1.86±0.03
FIG. S22.Performance of logical state preparation of a random CSS product state benchmarked inXandZ
basis.We compare the flag-at-origin (Sec. XII 2) and projective state preparation (Sec. XII 1) methods. The left panel shows
the logical error rate conditioned on acceptance, while the middle and right panels respectively show the pre- and post-discard
probabilities arising from flag-based and syndrome-based postselection. Data are plotted against physical error ratep. Dashed
lines indicate power-law fits in the low-error-rate regime, and the fitted exponentβcharacterizes the effective scaling of the
logical error rate, as pre-(post-) discard rates, and shaded areas indicate 95% Wilson confidence intervals.
1. Projective preparation
We fault-tolerantly prepare encoded CSS states using a postselected projective measurement scheme. This method
consists of initializing the data qubits of the code in a product state of a chosen basis, and projecting the system onto
the desired logical state by repeated measurement of an appropriate set of commuting parity checks. In our setting,
we apply this method by measuring stabilizers of the concatenated iceberg code in the basis opposite to the initial
product state, as well as additional commuting Pauli operators, referred to as state stabilizers, which fix the logical
sector and uniquely define the target logical state. The concatenated iceberg stabilizer generators separate into two
sets,S inner andS outer, which, respectively, have support at lower and higher levels of concatenation. The former
each have support on a single lower-level iceberg code, while the outer stabilizers have larger support on multiple
lower-level blocks, as shown in Fig. 1a in the main text.
Stabilizer measurements are implemented using minimal one-flag gadgets. Each check inS inner andS outer is mea-
sured using a dedicated syndrome ancilla and a single flag ancilla, where two additional CX gates couple the syndrome
ancilla to the flag ancilla at the beginning and end of the syndrome extraction circuit, with the control (target) de-
pending on the CSS stabilizer basis. The purpose of this construction is to ensure that the probability of an accepted

37
10−410−310−2
p10−710−610−510−410−310−210−1PL
F@O,X,β= 2.73±0.03
F@O,Z,β= 2.89±0.04
Projective, X,β= 2.82±0.02
Projective, Z,β= 2.76±0.06
10−410−310−2
p10−1100Ppre−discard
F@O,X,β= 0.93±0.01
F@O,Z,β= 0.93±0.01
Projective, X,β= 0.80±0.04
Projective, Z,β= 0.80±0.04
10−410−310−2
p10−410−310−210−1100Ppost−discard
F@O,X,β= 1.87±0.03
F@O,Z,β= 1.87±0.03
Projective, X,β= 1.94±0.01
Projective, Z,β= 1.85±0.03
FIG. S23.Performance of logical state preparation of an exotic CSS state benchmarked in bothXandZbases.
We compare the flag-at-origin (Sec. XII 2) and projective state preparation (Sec. XII 1) methods. The left panel shows the
logical error rate conditioned on acceptance, while the middle and right panels respectively show the pre- and post-discard
probabilities arising from flag-based and syndrome-based postselection. Data are plotted against physical error ratep. Dashed
lines indicate power-law fits in the low-error-rate regime, and the fitted exponentβcharacterizes the effective scaling of the
logical error rate, as pre-(post-) discard rates, and shaded areas indicate 95% Wilson confidence intervals.
123456789101112131415161718192012345678
SouterSinner
FIG. S24.Schematic stabilizer measurement schedule for the concatenated iceberg code in Sec. XII 1.We
show one representative outer stabilizer (left) and one inner stabilizer (right). Numbers label discrete CX time steps between
stabilizer ancilla and data qubits, which are executed in parallel across all inner (respectively, outer) stabilizers. The zigzag
measurement ordering of the outer stabilizer enables FT syndrome extraction using a single flag ancilla to detect hook errors.
logical failure is suppressed to second order in the physical error rate, i.e. scales asO(p2). Indeed, any single fault
either triggers a flag, leading to immediate rejection of the shot, or results in an error that remains within the cor-
rectable regime of the preparation protocol, such that accepted logical errors have noO(p) contribution. Moreover,
it is not necessary to individually detect all two-fault events in this postselected scheme, since for distance-4 FT
preparation it suffices that two-fault events do not cause accepted atO(p2). Equivalently, a shot is accepted only
if its syndrome is compatible with the desired logical state, within a decoding radius of one physical error. Any
undetected two-fault event producing a syndrome outside of this radius is considered non-correctable and the shot
is rejected. This prevents the failure mechanism where a two-fault event produces a syndrome that an ideal decoder
would interpret as a low-weight correctable error in the wrong logical coset.
The validity of the flagged circuit for the inner stabilizers follows from the fact that any of these is a global weight-
nincheck of an iceberg block, and different blocks are disjoint. Hence, all inner stabilizers can be measured in parallel.
A logical operator of the concatenated iceberg code can have support on only two qubits per inner block, and a single
syndrome ancilla error can cause a hook error within the block. The flag ancilla detects any hook that produces a
weight≥1 error, such that accepted outcomes are at worst weight-one within each block. The outer (higher-level)
stabilizers have support that spans multiple inner (lower-level) blocks, and a naive schedule can lead to malignant
hook errors. To avoid this, we choose an interleaved syndrome ancilla-data qubit CX ordering, in a zigzag pattern

38
across the support of each stabilizer, as shown in Fig. S24. This ordering spreads potential hook endpoints across
blocks and ensures that any unflagged two-fault events cannot be creating an error that is indistinguishable from a
single-qubit error up to a logical operator.
To prepare a desired logical state after fixing the codespace, we additionally perform projective measurements of
a chosen set of mutually commuting Pauli operators, referred to as the state stabilizers. Such operators commute
with all stabilizers of the code, and their joint eigenvalues uniquely define the target logical sector. Operationally,
each of these logical operators is measured using a FT flagged Pauli-product measurement circuit, implemented after
stabilizer extraction, where each flagged measurement schedule is taken from the library of flag gadgets generated
in [25], where the number of flag ancillae per operator is parametrized by the target code distance. In order to
simplify benchmarking for comparison with other state preparation methods, we do not consider idling noise, and
assume that these (gauged) logical operator measurements are realized sequentially. This choice isolates the intrinsic
fault tolerance of the measurement gadgets themselves. We emphasize that more efficient FT schedules can be
constructed by interleaving commuting logical operator measurements, both within this set and potentially with the
stabilizer measurements, in order to reduce circuit depth, flag-ancillary overhead, and the impact of idling noise. In
particular, the flagged syndrome extraction circuits considered here possess a constrained interaction structure, in
which the roles of certain qubit types, i.e. which qubits act exclusively as controls or targets in multi-qubit gates, are
fixed by construction. This structure could be exploited to enable greater parallelization in the schedule. We leave a
systematic exploration of such schedule optimizations for future work.
We simulate this logical state preparation protocol usingStimfor two-qubit depolarizing noise of strengthp.
We start by initializing the data qubits in the computational basis product state|0⟩⊗80. FT state preparation is
simulated using repeated flagged stabilizer measurements in theZbasis and, when applicable, flagged logical-operator
measurements, followed by postselection onto the desired syndrome outcomes. Three rounds of measurements are
performed. To benchmark logical performance in both Pauli bases, we use projective Pauli-product measurements
(PPM) at the end of the circuit. When the benchmarking basis coincides with the preparation basis, stabilizers
and logical observables can be measured directly. Since we benchmark bothXandZbases in a single numerical
experiment, the stabilizers and logical observables of the conjugate basis are measured via PPM projections, which
naturally commute with the stabilizer group. This approach enables the extraction of logical error rates in bothX
andZbases from a single preparation experiment. In Figures S21, S22, and S23, we report the logical error rate for
the preparation of (i) the encoded zero state, (ii) a random CSS state drawn from an arbitrary| ¯0⟩/|¯+⟩distribution,
and (iii) an exotic CSS state comprising a mixture of single-qubit CSS states and Bell pairs. The pre-discard and
post-discard rates, shown in panels (b) and (c), are defined as the discard probabilities after flag detection, and after
both flag- and syndrome-based postselection.
2. Flag-at-origin preparation
We use the flag-at-origin (F@O) method introduced in [25] as an alternative method for preparing the logical states
of the concatenated iceberg code. In this subsection, we will give a brief overview of the F@O method, and describe
the modifications made to the original protocol to optimize the resulting circuit further to use the number of qubits
available in the Helios trapped-ion quantum processor.
For a CSS state withn X(nZ) number ofX-type (Z-type) independent stabilizer generators, one can find a non-
fault-tolerant bipartite unitary preparation circuitCwhich acts on|0⟩⊗nZ|+⟩⊗nXand composed of only CX gates.
LetQ XandQ Zdenote the set of qubits initialized in|+⟩and|0⟩states respectively. The preparation circuitC
is bipartite in the sense that for all CX gates, the control qubits are inQ Xand the target qubits areQ Z. This
bipartite structure is closely related to the fact that any CSS states can be represented by a graph state|G⟩withG
bipartite [25]. The bipartite structure ofCensures that errors will not propagate withinQ X(or withinQ Z), and any
Xerror can only propagate once fromQ Xto a qubit inQ Z(and will not propagate further), and similarly anyZerror
can only propagate once from a qubit inQ Zto a qubit inQ X. Importantly, this straightforward error propagation
structure allows one to inspect the fault tolerance of the sub-circuit connected to each qubitseparatelyand therefore
attach a flag gadget to that qubit (i.e. to use flag qubits to prevent harmful errors from propagating undetected),
making the corresponding sub-circuit fault-tolerant (see Ref. [25] for further details). We useC FTto denote the FT
circuit that results from attaching flag gadgets to each qubit inQ X∪QZ.
Since the concatenated iceberg codeI 8◦I6is CSS we may use F@O to prepare any CSS logical state fault-tolerantly.
We use the following additional optimization techniques to ensureC FTcan be executed on the Helios trapped-ion
quantum processor:
•In the original F@O technique in Ref. [25], the same gadgets are used ford= 4 andd= 5 codes. This ensures
any fault pairs in the preparation circuit that result in weightw >2 errors on the data qubits are flagged and
discarded. This is sub-optimal since an ideal decoder for theI 8◦ I6code discards any shot withw≥2 errors

39
on data qubits anyway. Therefore we only flag a fault pair if it propagates to an error that the ideal decoder
mistakenly corrects instead of discards, i.e. if it propagates to an error with the same syndrome as a single-qubit
error.
•Ideally, one would apply the gates inC FTin parallel. However, doing so requires more qubits than what is
available on the Helios trapped-ion quantum processor. Therefore we have to run flag gadgets serially. Different
choices of which flag gadgets to run first may then result in different total number of simultaneously allocated
qubits. In [25], it was suggested to start by running the gadgets attached to qubits inQ Xand run the gadgets
inQ Zaccordingly. However, for states with|Q Z| ≫ |Q X|, such as the logical all-zero state| ¯0⟩⊗48, it is better
to start with gadgets attached to qubits inQ Zand build the gadgets for qubits inQ Xaccordingly. Moreover,
within the qubits inQ Z, we begin with the flag gadget of the qubit with the largest number of CX gates attached
to it inC, followed by the one with the second-to-largest, and so on. This ensures that we are done with flag
gadgets which potentially need more flag qubits first, when we have more qubits available, before we entangle
more data qubits to the state we are building.
•The circuits in Ref. [25] were found by first finding a circuitCwhich has the lowest number of CX gates (among
some fixed number of randomly builtC) and then, using the fact that all CX gates inCcommute with each
other, finding the CX ordering which results in aC FTwith the lowest number of required qubits. Since the
required number of qubits inC FTis not simply a function of the number of CX gates inC, we combine these
two steps together; we find a large number ofC(of the order of 103) with relatively small number of CX gates,
and buildC FTfor each of them and choose the one with the smallest number of required simultaneous qubits.
3. Flag-based| 0⟩⊗48state preparation
Using the insight that all operations required for| 0⟩48state preparation in the iceberg code are themselves transver-
sal in the iceberg code, a non-FT state preparation circuit for the two-layer concatenated iceberg code can easily be
created, see Figure S25.
Given the limited error propagation in this circuit, flag-based fault tolerance [5] is an effective method for deriving
an equivalent FT circuit. We produce a preparation circuit using an automated method for producing flag FT circuits
for CSS codes [51], see Figure S26.

40
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
X
X
Z
X
X
X
X
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
FIG. S25.Depth-9non-FT circuit preparing| 0⟩⊗48in theI 8◦ I6code.The circuit contains 142 CX gates.

411
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98X
XZ
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
X
X
Z
X
X
X
X
XZ
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
X
Z
Z
Z
Z
Z
XZ
ZX
Z
X
X
X
Z
X
Z
X
Z
XX
XX
XX
ZZ
Z
Z
XZXZZX
ZZ
Z
ZXZZX
ZZ
Z
ZXZZX
ZZ
Z
ZXZZX
ZZ
Z
ZZZ
XX
ZX
Z
XX
X
XZ
XX
X
XZX ZX
XX
XZ
X
X
ZXX
X
XZ
ZZ
XZ
X
Z
XX XX
Z
XZZ
X
Z
XZ
X
Z
XZ
X
Z
XZ
X
Z
XZ
X
Z
X
FIG. S26.Flag FT circuit preparing| 0⟩⊗48in theI 8◦ I6code.The circuit contains 344 CX gates and 67 measurements.

42
FIG. S27.Sampled syndrome probabilities for different error ratesp.The syndrome may be caused by errors of different
weights; the vertical dashed lines separate regimes whose lowest-weight errors are of weight zero to four. The syndromes are
ordered byP(s) in descending order. For eachp, we take 1010samples.
XIII: Decoding Goto’s state preparation
Here we discuss more details on the decoding of the state preparation circuit for theI 8◦I6concatenated code that
was introduced in Ref. [7]. First note that products of four operatorsX i,jXk,jXk,lXi,l(andZ i,jZk,jZk,lZi,l) that are,
using the conventions from Fig. 1a, arranged in a rectangle, commute with all stabilizers, thus, they must be products
of logical operators and stabilizers. Since all minimum-weight stabilizers have at least weight min(n 1,2n2) = 8, the
productsX i,jXk,jXk,lXi,l(andZ i,jZk,jZk,lZi,l) must contain at least one logical operator. Hence, each two-qubit
Xerror is connected to at least one other two-qubit error by some combination of logical operators, i.e., for each
syndrome corresponding to a two-qubit error there are at least two same-weight errors in different equivalence classes.
We thus do not attempt to correct any two-qubit errors. Similar arguments hold for three-qubit errors: for each three-
qubit error, we can find at least another three-qubit error with the same syndrome, but in a different equivalence
class; additionally, some three-qubit errors share the same syndrome with one-qubit errors in a different equivalence
class. Hence, we do not attempt to correct any syndrome corresponding to weight-two-or-higher errors.
We simulate the quantum circuit usingStim[46] for two-qubit depolarizing noise of strengthpafter each two-qubit
gate. The error rates for qubit initialization and measurement (bit flip or phase flip errors) also equalp. We measure
each final state in itsZbasis to reconstruct itsSZsyndromesand logical equivalence classq. Since the code has 16
SZstabilizers and 48 logical qubits, we consider 216different syndromessand 248equivalence classesq.
We show the distribution of syndromes in Fig. S27. For eachp, we sample 1010different circuits and use the results
to estimate the syndrome probabilityP(s). We categorize all syndromes by their minimum-weight error; note that
higher-weight errors (connected via logicals and stabilizers) may cause the same syndrome. The gray dashed lines in
Fig. S27 separate syndromes with minimum-weight zero-, one-, two-, and higher-qubit errors.P(s) is not constant in
each regime since (i) errors are not caused by code capacity noise, but circuit-level noise, and (ii) some two-weight
error syndromes can be caused by two inequivalent weight-two errors, while others can be caused by eight or ten
inequivalent weight-two errors (and the latter thus occur with higher probability).
As argued before, we do not attempt to correct any syndrome caused by weight-two errors. In Fig. S28, we
provide numerical evidence that supports our arguments. We show the ratio of the (numerically sampled) maximum-
likelihood equivalence classP qmax,sand the total syndrome probabilityP(s) =P
qPq,s. This ratio is a measure for
the confidence in the chosen correction: when the ratio approaches one, we have a high confidence that the syndrome
swas caused by an error in classq; if another equivalence class is more likely, the ratio will drop below 1/2. We show
1−P qmax,s/P(s) in Fig. S28, which for the trivial syndrome grows asp4, and for syndromes caused by weight-one

43
FIG. S28.ProbabilityP q,sthat an error is characterized by an equivalence classqand syndromes, divided by
probability of the syndromeP(s) =P
qPq,s.Dots denote data points, and the red shaded area the 95 % Wilson confidence
interval. For most two-qubit errors,P qmax,s/P(s)≲1/2 (black dashed line denotes 1/2).
errors increases asp2. For syndromes caused by two-qubit errors, as argued before, there are at least two same-weight
errors in different equivalence classes, hence, assuming that for circuit-level noise both errors have similar probabilities,
Pqmax,s/P(s)≲1/2, as evident from Fig. S28, where the black dashed line denotesP qmax,s/P(s) = 1/2.
In Fig. S29, we show three different resulting error rates: in Fig. S29a, we showP flag, the sampled rate of flagged
circuit runs that are discarded. Only the postselected fraction 1−P flagof runs will be used for state preparation. Since
single-qubit errors can cause flags to fire, we expect thatP flaggrows linearly withpfor small error rates. We show a
gray dashed line∝pas a guide for the eye. We then discard all syndromes compatible with weight-two-and-higher
errors. We show the discard rateP postin panel (b), and include∝p2as a guide for the eye since two-qubit errors are
the dominant contribution toP post, which occur with probability∝p2. Finally, we show the resulting logical error
rateP Lin panel (c): logical errors occur with probabilityp3as they correspond to three-qubit errors causing the same
syndrome as one-qubit errors in a different equivalence class.

44
FIG. S29.Error rates for the state preparation protocol described in Sec. XIII.The error rates are obtained via
Stim [46] simulations, wherepis the strength of the depolarizing noise. (a) Rate of flagged circuit runs,P flag, (b) discard rate
of syndromes that are not compatible with weight-zero or weight-one errors,P post, and (c) final logical error rateP L. The black
dots represent the data, the red shaded region the 95 % Wilson confidence interval, and the gray dashed line a power law as a
guide for the eyes.

45
[1] T. J. Yoderet al., Tour de gross: A modular quantum computer based on bivariate bicycle codes (2025), arXiv:2506.03094
[quant-ph].
[2] S. Yoshida, S. Tamiya, and H. Yamasaki, Concatenate codes, save qubits, npj Quantum Information11, 88 (2025).
[3] N. Berthusen and E. Durso-Sabina, Simple logical quantum computation with concatenated symplectic double codes (2025),
arXiv:2510.18753 [quant-ph].
[4] D. Gottesman,Stabilizer Codes and Quantum Error Correction, Ph.D. thesis, California Institute of Technology (1997),
arXiv:quant-ph/9705052.
[5] R. Chao and B. W. Reichardt, Quantum error correction with only two extra qubits, Physical review letters121, 050502
(2018).
[6] C. N. Self, M. Benedetti, and D. Amaro, Protecting expressive circuits with a quantum error detection code, Nature Physics
20, 219 (2024).
[7] H. Goto, High-performance fault-tolerant quantum computing with many-hypercube codes, Science Advances10,
10.1126/sciadv.adp6388 (2024).
[8] A. Ransfordet al., Helios: A 98-qubit trapped-ion quantum computer (2025), arXiv:2511.05465.
[9] Y. Akahoshi, K. Maruyama, H. Oshima, S. Sato, and K. Fujii, Partially fault-tolerant quantum computing architecture
with error-corrected clifford gates and space-time efficient analog rotations, PRX Quantum5, 010337 (2024).
[10] Y. Ibe, Y. Hirano, Y. Ozu, T. Kawakubo, and K. Fujii, Measurement-based fault-tolerant quantum computation on high-
connectivity devices: A resource-efficient approach toward early ftqc (2025), arXiv:2510.18652 [quant-ph].
[11] Y. Jinet al., Iceberg Beyond the Tip: Co-Compilation of a Quantum Error Detection Code and a Quantum Algorithm,
arXiv:2504.21172.
[12] K. Yamamotoet al., Quantum error-corrected computation of molecular energies (2025), arXiv:2505.09133 [quant-ph].
[13] H. Goto, Optimized many-hypercube codes toward lower logical error rates and earlier realization (2025), arXiv:2512.00561
[quant-ph].
[14] R. Nakai and H. Goto, Subsystem many-hypercube codes: High-rate concatenated codes with low-weight syndrome mea-
surements, Physical Review Applied25, 10.1103/xbzn-vn37 (2026).
[15] J. Combes, C. Granade, C. Ferrie, and S. T. Flammia, Logical randomized benchmarking (2017), arXiv:1702.03688 [quant-
ph].
[16] A. Erhardet al., Characterizing large-scale quantum computers via cycle benchmarking, Nature Communications10, 5347
(2019).
[17] We benchmark the gate atθ=π/2; in general Helios can implement either gate with arbitraryθand we expect that
logical error decreases withθsimilar to the physical gate, since the probability of a single fault causing a logical error is
correspondingly scaled down.
[18] S. A. Moseset al., A race-track trapped-ion quantum processor, Phys. Rev. X13, 041052 (2023).
[19] R. Haghshenas, E. Chertkov,et al., Digital quantum magnetism at the frontier of classical simulations (2025),
arXiv:2503.20870.
[20] T. Proctoret al., Establishing trust in quantum computations (2022), arXiv:2204.07568 [quant-ph].
[21] T. Proctor, K. Rudinger, K. Young, E. Nielsen, and R. Blume-Kohout, Measuring the capabilities of quantum computers,
Nature Physics18, 75 (2022).
[22] K. Mayeret al., Theory of mirror benchmarking and demonstration on a quantum computer (2023), arXiv:2108.10431
[quant-ph].
[23] M. Koch, A. Lawrence, K. Singhal, S. Sivarajah, and R. Duncan, Guppy: Pythonic quantum-classical programming,
arXiv:2510.12582.
[24] R. Acharya, D. A. Abanin,et al., Quantum error correction below the surface code threshold, Nature638, 920 (2025).
[25] D. Forlivesi and D. Amaro, Flag at origin: a modular fault-tolerant preparation for css codes (2025), arXiv:2508.14200
[quant-ph].
[26] T. Kakizaki, Approximate level-by-level maximum-likelihood decoding based on the chase algorithm for high-rate concate-
nated stabilizer codes (2026), arXiv:2601.18743 [quant-ph].
[27] P. Liuet al., Coniq: Enabling concatenated quantum error correction on neutral atom arrays (2025), arXiv:2508.05779
[cs.AR].
[28] S. Dasuet al., Breaking even with magic: demonstration of a high-fidelity logical non-clifford gate (2025), arXiv:2506.14688
[quant-ph].
[29] P. Sales Rodriguez, J. M. Robinson,et al., Experimental demonstration of logical magic state distillation, Nature645, 620
(2025).
[30] D. Bluvstein, S. J. Evered,et al., Logical quantum processor based on reconfigurable atom arrays, Nature626, 58 (2024).
[31] D. J. Winelandet al., Experimental issues in coherent quantum-state manipulation of trapped atomic ions, J Res Natl
Inst Stand Technol103, 259 (1998).
[32] D. Kielpinski, C. Monroe, and D. J. Wineland, Architecture for a large-scale ion-trap quantum computer, Nature417, 709
(2002).
[33] J. M. Pinoet al., Demonstration of the trapped-ion quantum ccd computer architecture, Nature592, 209 (2021).
[34] W. C. Burtonet al., Transport of multispecies ion crystals through a junction in a radio-frequency paul trap, Phys. Rev.
Lett.130, 173202 (2023).

46
[35] P. Niroulaet al., Realization of a quantum streaming algorithm on long-lived trapped-ion qubits (2025), arXiv:2511.03689
[quant-ph].
[36] M. Liuet al., Certified randomness amplification by dynamically probing remote random quantum states (2025),
arXiv:2511.03686 [quant-ph].
[37] P. J. Leeet al., Phase control of trapped ion quantum gates, Journal of Optics B: Quantum and Semiclassical Optics7,
S371 (2005).
[38] S. J. Beale, J. J. Wallman, M. Guti´ errez, K. R. Brown, and R. Laflamme, Quantum error correction decoheres noise, Phys.
Rev. Lett.121, 190501 (2018).
[39] C. Ryan-Andersonet al., Realization of real-time fault-tolerant quantum error correction (2021), arXiv:2107.07505 [quant-
ph].
[40] N. C. Brown, A. W. Cross, and K. R. Brown, Critical faults of leakage errors on the surface code (2020), arXiv:2003.05843
[quant-ph].
[41] D. Hayeset al., Eliminating leakage errors in hyperfine qubits, Physical Review Letters124, 10.1103/physrevlett.124.170501
(2020).
[42] A. Javadi-Abhari, S. Martiel, A. Seif, M. Takita, and K. X. Wei, Big cats: entanglement in 120 qubits and beyond (2025),
arXiv:2510.09520 [quant-ph].
[43] D. A. Lidar, I. L. Chuang, and K. B. Whaley, Decoherence-free subspaces for quantum computation, Phys. Rev. Lett.81,
2594 (1998).
[44] A. M. Steane, Active stabilization, quantum computation, and quantum state synthesis, Physical Review Letters78,
2252–2255 (1997).
[45] P. Prabhu and B. W. Reichardt, Distance-four quantum codes with combined postselection and error correction, Physical
Review A110, 10.1103/physreva.110.012419 (2024).
[46] C. Gidney, Stim: a fast stabilizer circuit simulator, Quantum5, 497 (2021).
[47] M. A. Nielsen, A simple formula for the average gate fidelity of a quantum dynamical operation, Physics Letters A303,
249 (2002).
[48] Z. Li, Y.-G. Han, and H. Zhu, Optimal verification of greenberger-horne-zeilinger states, Phys. Rev. Appl.13, 054002
(2020).
[49] S. T. Flammia and Y.-K. Liu, Direct fidelity estimation from few pauli measurements, Phys. Rev. Lett.106, 230501 (2011).
[50] Y. Hong, E. Durso-Sabina, D. Hayes, and A. Lucas, Entangling four logical qubits beyond break-even in a nonlocal code,
Physical Review Letters133, 10.1103/physrevlett.133.180601 (2024).
[51] B. Crigeret al., Automated flag-based fault-tolerant state preparation using integer linear programming (2026), in prepa-
ration.