KvantifyKvantify Announces Second Close of Funding Round Totaling €7M to Accelerate the Quantum Revolution in Drug DiscoveryCopyright: MAD CAT productions, 2026. ← BackPublished on March 5, 2026Team KvantifyKvantify is excited to announce the successful second close of its total €7M funding round. The long-term investors European Innovation Council Fund (EIC) and Danish-based Delphinus Venture Capital support the Company’s mission to transform molecular discovery by coupling quantum and classical computing. “We are thrilled to have the EIC Fund and Delphinus Venture Capital on board for this round extension. Their support empowers us to accelerate innovation and strengthens Europe’s position in quantum technology,” says Dr. Jörg Weiser, Executive Chairperson at Kvantify. Technology with Immense Potential Quantum computing has the potential to solve problems that are currently too complex for even the most powerful classical computers. As the technology matures, it will unlock breakthroughs in areas such as drug discovery and general molecular design. Many drug discovery challenges relate to molecular simulation and require solving quantum mechanical equations that scale exponentially with molecular size – this is at the heart of what the concept of quantum computing was originally invented to handle. As quantum hardware and algorithms mature, these capabilities may dramatically lower drug development attrition rates, lower R&D costs, and open the door to discovering entirely new classes of medicines. “Supporting pioneering technologies is at the heart of our mission. Kvantify’s work at the intersection of quantum computing and life sciences represents a transformative opportunity for Europe to lead in next-generation innovation. We are glad to play a role in accelerating this vision,” says Svetoslava Georgieva, Chair of the EIC Fund Board. Investment Set to Expand on Market Presence and Business Development In November 2025, Kvantify launched Qrunch, a technology for running quantum chemistry on real quantum computers, strengthening the platform to accelerate drug discovery. The next step will be to make this breakthrough technology available to users in the relevant domains to ensure uptake where it matters the most. This is the place at which visionary technologies meet real-world customer needs. Qrunch allows end users to run realistic workflows with present quantum hardware. With this investment, Kvantify will be able to propel its roadmap as the leading company in coupling quantum and classical computing, as well as increasing collaborative partnerships with drug discovery organizations to make the biggest impact for customers. “We see Kvantify as a key player in unlocking the potential of quantum computing for real-world applications in drug discovery and molecular design. This investment reflects our confidence in their team, technology, and ability to deliver impact in a rapidly evolving market,” says Mathias Lorenz, Managing Partner at Delphinus Venture Capital. About EIC Fund The European Innovation Council Fund from the European Commission is a deep-tech investor across all technologies. The EIC Fund aims to fill a critical financing gap, to support companies in the development and commercialization of disruptive technologies. With its large network of capital providers and strategic partners it shares risk and crowds in market players. More information: https://eic.ec.europa.eu/eic-fund_en About Delphinus Venture Capital Established in 2025 Initial fund of €80 million Investors: Aarhus University Research Foundation, HEARTLAND, Norlys, and Salling Group Focus: Research-heavy innovation and deep tech More information: https://delphinus.vc/ About Kvantify Kvantify is a Danish company started in 2022, developing software products for both quantum and classical computers. Kvantify has a special focus on the life science industry, especially early drug discovery. More information: www.kvantify.com ← BackTake thenext leapGet in touch →Rosenvængets Allé 25, ground floor2100 København ØDenmarkCVR: 42958093contact@kvantify.comPrivacy and Cookie Policy© 2026 — Kvantify