News - QuantrolOx powers Quantum-Hub@MAHE | QuantrolOx The Team Products Quantum Edge QPU Monitoring Automation Workflows Data Visualisation VIDYAQAR Resources Publications Videos News Blog Careers Values Contact Us Select Page QuantrolOx powers Quantum-Hub@MAHE to Advance the Indo-European Open-Architecture Quantum Ecosystem PRESS RELEASE 5th March 2026, Espoo, Finland and Bengaluru, India QuantrolOx, a company developing quantum automation tools and Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), an Institution of Eminence Deemed-to-be University, today announced a partnership to develop Quantum-Hub@MAHE (Q-HUB@MAHE) at Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Bengaluru, a university-led indigenous open-architecture quantum ecosystem. “Coming on the back of the EU-India Free Trade Agreement, I am incredibly proud that our VIDYAQAR open-architecture platform has been selected to lead the development of Q-HUB@MAHE. The seven-figure deal launches the first phase of a roadmap that will progress from sub-50 qubit training systems to 50–150 qubit proof-of-concept platforms and ultimately toward 150–1,000+ qubit industrial-grade quantum production systems with our European partners Bluefors, ConScience and Qblox” commented Vishal Chatrath, CEO of QuantrolOx. Conceived as an integrated design-to-deployment platform, Q-HUB@MAHE brings together quantum hardware experimentation, deep-tech startup incubation, component innovation, workforce development, testing infrastructure, and translational research within a unified academic framework. The initiative is structured to strengthen India and Europe’s capability across the quantum value chain. Prof. Iven Jose, Director, MIT Bengaluru explained: “Access to real quantum hardware, cryogenic systems, and RF infrastructure ensures that our students and researchers are not merely technology users but system builders. This is essential for developing India’s next generation of quantum engineers through the Manipal House of Quantum.” Also coming to Q-HUB@MAHE is Quantum EDGE Academy, a virtual lab for mastering superconducting quantum hardware. With professionally written courses and interactive simulated hardware, it prepares students by teaching them the essential physics, measurements, and calibration behind real quantum systems – giving students, researchers, and educators a hands-on “peek under the hood”. This initiative is a key part of QuantrolOx’s commitment to building India’s quantum workforce. Svetoslava Georgieva, Chair of the EIC Fund Board, said: “This partnership demonstrates the power of combining entrepreneurial ambition with world-class research. It reflects EIC Fund’s commitment to support game-changing innovators and to enable trusted global collaboration in critical technologies.” Aasheesh Chudasama, Innovation Collaboration (India & Singapore) for Business Finland commented, “Finland has built a globally competitive quantum ecosystem rooted in cutting-edge research, strong academia–industry collaboration, and bold innovation policies. Business Finland is proud to support Finnish quantum companies in scaling internationally, and through our active presence in India, we are committed to enabling trusted partnerships between Finnish and Indian stakeholders. India is a priority market for Business Finland, reflected not only in our growing commercial engagement but also in the recent visit of Prime Minister Petteri Orpo to India during the AI Summit and the ongoing Presidential visit led by Alexander Stubb. This milestone collaboration in quantum computing is a testament to the deepening technology partnership between our two countries and the long-term potential of the India–Finland innovation corridor.” The facility is scheduled for inauguration in September 2026. QuantrolOx partners emphasize the strategic importance of the beginning of the era of open-architecture quantum systems. Bluefors “Bluefors has long-standing ties with India’s academic community, and we’re pleased to strengthen our presence in the country’s growing quantum research ecosystem. Supporting QuantrolOx in their collaboration with MAHE reflects our commitment to enabling large-scale, open-architecture innovation and advancing world-class quantum research.” — David Gunnarsson, Chief Business Development Officer of Bluefors. Qblox “The deployment of VIDYAQAR at Q-HUB@MAHE, featuring Qblox’s modular control stack, is a significant milestone for our commitment to open-architecture quantum development. We believe that empowering the next generation of engineers with hands-on access to advanced, scalable, and interoperable quantum control systems is crucial for accelerating the entire global quantum ecosystem. This partnership exemplifies how collaboration can translate cutting-edge technology into practical educational tools.” — Niels Bultink, CEO of Qblox. ConScience “At ConScience, we believe that horizontal integration is the key to unlocking the full potential of the quantum computing industry. A consortium of strong partners developing open, scalable, and collaborative architectures represents the future of quantum computing. We are proud to contribute the superconducting quantum processor technology at the heart of VIDYAQAR at Q-HUB@MAHE and to support MAHE on its journey from first training systems to 1,000+ qubit industrial platforms. Over the past years, we have refined our fabrication processes to deliver high-coherence, commercially available superconducting qubit devices to customers worldwide. Through our partnership with QuantrolOx, Bluefors, Qblox, and MAHE, we are not merely supplying hardware — we are co-developing the next generation of scalable quantum systems and helping establish India as a leading force in the global open-architecture quantum ecosystem.” — Marcus Rommel, CTO of ConScience About QuantrolOx QuantrolOx develops Quantum EDGE, a measurement and automation platform for quantum hardware, along with Quantum EDGE Academy for training future quantum engineers. QuantrolOx also offers VIDYAQAR, an integrated, open-architecture superconducting quantum system for education, research, testing, and benchmarking. Together, these products help teams move from slow, manual workflows to fast, automated quantum R&D. Media Contact QuantrolOx Vishal Chatrath Chief Executive Officer, QuantrolOx Email: vishal@quantrolox.com © 2026 QuantrolOx Ltd. All rights reserved. Finland : QuantrolOx Finland Oy, Keilaranta 10 E, 02150 Espoo Registration number: 3228548-5 UK: QuantrolOx Ltd., Oxford Centre for Innovation, New Road, Oxford, Oxfordshire OX1 1BY Registration number: 13529974 Netherlands: QuantrolOx Netherlands B.V., Delftechpark 1, 2628 XJ Delft Registration number: 93542747 India: QuantrolOx Quantum Solutions Private Limited, 198, CMH Road, 2nd Road, No. 327, Indiranagar, 560038 Bengaluru Registration number: U62011KA2025FTC202453 Terms Privacy Notice Acceptable Use Policy QuantrolOx's Subprocessors FollowFollow