QED-C Announces Research Advances In Quantum Control Electronics Skip to content Quantum Computing Quantum Algorithms Quantum Applications Quantum Computing Business News Quantum Research News Quantum Funding Landscape Quantum Features Quantum Cloud Quantum Internet Quantum Machine Learning Quantum Security Technology News Artificial Intelligence Metaverse Machine Learning Robotics Physics Technology Features Quantum Company Navigator Quantum Computing, Quantum Hardware, Quantum Research News QED-C Announces Research Advances in Quantum Control Electronics February 27, 2026 by Quantum News The Quantum Economic Development Consortium (QED-C) has announced advancements in quantum control electronics achieved through a research program supported by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Addressing critical needs outlined in its Control and Readout Electronics for Quantum Systems roadmap, QED-C competitively awarded $1.4 million in matching funds in 2022 to member companies—Amphenol RF, Maybell Quantum Industries, Rigetti Computing, and XMA—to bolster the quantum supply chain. Results demonstrate improvements in size and performance across multiple qubit modalities, with innovations ranging from reduced cabling footprints to on-chip temperature measurement. “QED-C aims to identify gaps in enabling technologies for quantum computing, quantum sensing, and quantum networking,” and this work represents a significant step toward more compact and manufacturable quantum hardware, ultimately fostering a robust commercial industry and supply chain. NIST Funding Drives Quantum Control Electronics Advancements Amphenol RF successfully reduced the size, weight, and signal loss of room-temperature control readout electronics, paving the way for more manufacturable and scalable quantum systems. Simultaneously, Maybell Quantum Industries redesigned control and readout electronics to achieve tighter integration of passive and active devices, resulting in a simpler and denser package. Rigetti Computing innovated by creating nanoscale superconducting structures to directly measure temperature on the chip alongside qubit circuitry, a development that “will make it easier to identify and diagnose heating issues that can degrade qubit performance.” XMA tackled the issues of cost, footprint, and thermal impact, developing a cabling solution that increases channel capacity while simultaneously reducing size and expense. These advancements all aligned with four key goals from the QED-C roadmap, including reducing thermal load and the physical footprint of microwave-control cabling in cryogenic environments, and locating digital electronics closer to the quantum processor. QED-C Roadmap Targets Cryogenic Cabling & Integration The pursuit of scalable quantum computing currently relies on increasingly sophisticated control and readout electronics, a field where significant advancements are needed to overcome physical limitations. This collaborative effort targeted four key areas, including reducing thermal load and footprint of cryogenic cabling and enabling tighter integration of components within quantum processors. Rigetti Computing devised a method for on-chip temperature measurement using nanoscale superconducting structures, promising easier diagnosis of performance-degrading heating issues. Participation in the sponsored research and development program was limited to QED-C members, ensuring focused efforts aligned with industry needs. This will make it easier to identify and diagnose heating issues that can degrade qubit performance. Rigetti Computing Source: https://www.einpresswire.com/article/895812357/qed-c-rigetti-amphenol-rf-maybell-quantum-xma-release-results-of-research-to-enhance-quantum-control-electronics Tags: control electronics NIST QED-C Quantum Computing Rigetti Computing Quantum News There is so much happening right now in the field of technology, whether AI or the march of robots. Adrian is an expert on how technology can be transformative, especially frontier technologies. But Quantum occupies a special space. Quite literally a special space. A Hilbert space infact, haha! Here I try to provide some of the news that is considered breaking news in the Quantum Computing and Quantum tech space. Latest Posts by Quantum News: Sophus Technology to Showcase Quantum Solver Delivering Faster Optimization February 27, 2026 SEALSQ Expands Japan Presence to Support 2035 Quantum Security Mandate February 27, 2026 Quantum eMotion Strengthens Cybersecurity Strategy with SecureKey Platform Acquisition February 27, 2026 Post navigation Previous Article Sophus Technology to Showcase Quantum Solver Delivering Faster Optimization Quantum Computing News Quantum Zeitgeist covers the business, science and technology of quantum computing. Founded in 2018, we publish daily news, company analysis and original features for researchers, investors and technology leaders. Explore over 940 quantum companies across 47 countries in our Quantum Navigator. [Ad] The classic Textbook for learning Quantum Programming [Ad] Pre-Order This New Book On Quantum Programming In Depth [Ad] Quantum Computing Quantum Applications Quantum Books Quantum Computing Courses Quantum Machine Learning Quantum Jobs Quantum Programming Quantum Computing Quantum Cloud Quantum Landscape Quantum Cryptography Quantum Finance Quantum Hardware Quantum Internet Quantum Investment Technology Artificial Intelligence Analog Computing Deep Tech Emerging Technology High Performance Computing Machine Learning Space Science Robotics About Us Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Contact Us Disclaimer: All material, including information from or attributed to Quantum Zeitgeist or individual authors of content on this website, has been obtained from sources believed to be accurate as of the date of publication. However, Quantum Zeitgeist makes no warranty of the accuracy or completeness of the information and Quantum Zeitgeist does not assume any responsibility for its accuracy, efficacy, or use. Any information on the website obtained by Quantum Zeitgeist from third parties has not been reviewed for accuracy. Copyright 2019 to 2025 The Quantum Zeitgeist website is owned and operated by Hadamard LLC, a Wyoming limited liability company.