How Alice & Bob Uses NVIDIA CUDA-Q to Accelerate Quantum Error Correction Research - Alice & Bob Science Engineering That’s Us Roadmap Resources Learn more Blog Publications Glossary What's new Newsroom Whitepaper HPC Report Join us Science Engineering That’s Us Roadmap Resources Learn more Blog Publications Glossary What's new Newsroom Whitepaper HPC Report Join us // Latest articles How Alice & Bob Uses NVIDIA CUDA-Q to Accelerate Quantum Error Correction Research From Gaming to Quantum Error CorrectionGPUs were invented in the 1990s for one reason: turning video games into hyper-realistic worlds you could almost step into. Fast forward to today, and that same technology is now also being used in the design of quantum computers.It all comes down to the power of GPUs: their massive parallelism. Instead of running computations sequentially like traditional CPUs, GPUs can perform thousands of smaller computations simultaneously. This ability is what made them capable of processing millions of pixels independently, and creating highly realistic-looking video games.In the early 2000s, researchers realized GPUs could also be used for scientific computing applications, something known as GPGPU (General-Purpose computing on GPUs). But since these programs were written for rendering pixels, repurposing them to simulate physics meant “tricking” graphics software into doing science. Enter NVIDIA CUDA, introduced in 2006. It allowed developers to program GPUs directly using a C-like language. GPUs evolved from graphics accelerators into mainstream scientific computing platforms.Fast forward again to the 2020s: the introduction of NVIDIA CUDA-Q, a platform designed to enable classical compute, such as GPUs and CPUs, to work hand-in-hand with quantum processors.In fact, running a quantum computer will be a double act between classical and quantum computers. Quantum and Classical hardware will be drawn upon to solve the parts of problems where they each exceed.In this blog post, we’ll walk through how, at Alice & Bob, we’re using the CUDA-Q platform and GPU acceleration to speed up our workflows in quantum error correction research for our cat-qubit QPUs, specifically for Elevator Codes [1].Alice & Bob’s Helium chip.Quantum Error CorrectionBefore we get into the case study, what is quantum error correction?The big challenge we’re tackling in quantum computing arises from the nature of quantum information itself: qubits, the basic units of a quantum computer, are extremely fragile, and run into errors. Quantum error correction protects from this by encoding one logical qubit (the useful data) into many physical qubits. This enables errors to be detected and corrected without directly measuring, and therefore destroying, the quantum information.But once we design codes that protect qubits, we must also check that they actually work as we planned, and for that, we need large simulations.Decoding Simulations in QEC ResearchA central step in checking our code performance is decoding.In a real quantum device, we cannot observe errors directly: doing so would collapse the quantum state and destroy the encoded information. Instead, we measure specially designed observables called stabilizers. These measurements produce classical bits collectively known as a syndrome. The syndrome tells us that something went wrong, but not exactly where or how.In our simulations, we reproduce this same process: we generate error patterns according to a noise model, compute the corresponding syndrome, and then attempt to infer the underlying error.Given these indirect clues, classical software determines the most likely correction in order to prevent a logical error. On real hardware, decoding must happen in real time. In simulations, it’s “offline,” but it becomes enormous in scale. We have to run huge numbers of simulated experiments, called shots, to estimate how often logical failures occur. Because you need many shots to get reliable statistics, decoding can quickly become a huge computational cost in your simulation pipeline.However, because each shot is independent, we can treat them in parallel, and that’s exactly what GPUs are great at. Instead of decoding shots sequentially on a CPU, we can decode many simultaneously on a GPU. That’s where CUDA-Q comes in.Elevator Codes: A Case StudyUsing CUDA-Q, we were able to achieve much faster decoding speeds when simulating our Elevator Codes, and validate their logical error rate.Layout of Alice & Bob’s Elevator Codes.Elevator Codes are a new error correction code designed specifically to leverage a key feature Alice & Bob’s cat qubits, their strongly biased noise. They let us reach very low logical error rates, the kinds you’d need for large-scale quantum algorithms like Shor’s algorithm or demanding quantum chemistry simulations like FeMoco (a molecule key to nitrogen fixation and studying potential alternatives to fertilizer production).Specifically, we benchmarked decoding for the Elevator code across 100 000 simulated shots, on NVIDIA’s Grace Hopper vs a CPU-only device (AMD Ryzen 9 9950X 16 core).The result was a 9.25x speed up, with a run-time of 1 hour 57 minutes vs 18 hours 2 minutes respectively.Faster error correction cycles are far from trivial; they can help speed up what is often a big bottleneck in the simulations needed for crucial quantum error correction research. GPU speed-ups mean we can do things like iterating on code design more aggressively, and explore more architectural variations, helping to advance quantum error correction.Benchmark of a decoding simulation of Alice & Bob’s Elevator Codes using an NVIDIA GH200 Grace Hopper vs a CPU-based approach.The Bigger Picture: Faster Path to Fault-ToleranceAll in all, the same hardware architecture that powered the video game revolution is now helping us push toward fault-tolerant quantum computing. If you told someone in the 90s that GPUs would one day help simulate quantum error-correcting codes for cat qubits, they might reasonably assume you needed more sleep… but this is the reality of quantum computing.Our collaboration with NVIDIA on our QEC workflows with CUDA-Q is just one example of how tightly intertwined quantum and classical are already becoming, and how they are speeding up the path to scalable quantum computing.References [1] P. Shanahan and D. Ruiz, Elevator Codes: Concatenation for resource-efficient quantum memory under biased noise, arXiv:2601.10786, 2026. Share article Previous article Next article Related blog posts Cats for Quantum Chemistry: How Many Qubits to Simulate Nature’s Complex Molecules? Just Out of the Lab: A Cat Qubit That Jumps Every Hour Beyond Moore: Harnessing Quantum for the Next Era of HPC View all Create the future with us Join Us Homepage Science Engineering That’s Us Join Us Contact Publications Newsroom Media kit Feel like quantum physics and cats in your inbox? Subscribe ©2026, ALICE & BOB. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Press releases Press contact Privacy policy Terms of service Cookie settings Almost there... E-mail address* First name* Affiliation Your Interest* ScienceBusinessBoth By clicking on Subscribe, I accept to receive marketing emails from Alice & Bob. For more information, visit our Privacy Policy Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! You are now part of our clowder! (it's what you call a group of cats according to the dictionary).