Quantum Tycoon, an educational video game for discovering quantum computing - Current events - University of Barcelona UB.EDU Staff directory PTGAS and PDI Students en catalàcaespañoles Current events News Agenda Social networks Press room Press room Press room Press releases Experts opinion Toolkit for journalists8880 Area for Communication at the UB Search Current events News Agenda Social networks Press room Press room Press room Press releases Experts opinion Toolkit for journalists8880 Area for Communication at the UB University of Barcelona/ Current events/ News/ Quantum Tycoon, an educational video game for discovering quantum computing Quantum Tycoon, an educational video game for discovering quantum computing Share: News | Research (09/02/2026) The Institute of Cosmos Sciences (ICCUB) and the Institute of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IN2UB) at the University of Barcelona have released Quantum Tycoon, an educational app that combines entertainment and scientific dissemination to bring quantum computing to the general public in an interactive and accessible way. News | Research 09/02/2026 The Institute of Cosmos Sciences (ICCUB) and the Institute of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IN2UB) at the University of Barcelona have released Quantum Tycoon, an educational app that combines entertainment and scientific dissemination to bring quantum computing to the general public in an interactive and accessible way. The app, which can now be downloaded for free on Google Play, was developed by Gabriel Linares and Guillem Pérez, students at the UB’s Faculty of Physics, under the supervision of researchers Bruno Julià, from the Department of Quantum Physics and Astrophysics and the ICCUB, and Carles Calero, from the Department of Condensed Matter Physics and the IN2UB. In Quantum Tycoon, the user takes charge of a quantum computer company and must manage resources, develop technology, and complete tasks using real quantum algorithms, such as Grover’s algorithm. The game introduces key concepts of quantum technologies within a simulation and strategy environment while maintaining an engaging gaming experience. “We wanted to explore the idea that established game styles can be adapted to an educational format without sacrificing playability in the process,” says Gabriel Linares, one of the game’s creators. “I think we’ve succeeded!” Professor Bruno Julià highlights the importance of the initiative in the current context: “This game represents a qualitative leap forward in our commitment to rigorously disseminating a discipline as complex and yet as topical as quantum science and technology. The aim is to reach a wide audience and bring this knowledge closer to society.” In order to continue improving the app, the project team invites users to complete a short feedback form. Players’ opinions and suggestions will be key to optimizing the user experience, incorporating new features, and improving its educational component. With this launch, ICCUB and IN2UB reinforce their commitment to innovative scientific dissemination and education, and explore new digital formats to make cutting-edge scientific disciplines accessible to the general public. The Quantum Tycoon app can be found on the UB mobile apps page or directly on Google Play. Hidden × Legal notice Cookies Accessibility Contact us UB Shop UB Editions Facility rental Electronic Office Transparency portal Ethics and integrity mailbox The UB in social media Founder of Member of Member of International excellence European recognition