Perovskite crystals can host qubits, challenging long-held assumptions Topics Week's top Latest news Unread news Subscribe Science X Account Sign In Sign in with Forget Password? Not a member? Sign up Learn more Nanotechnology Physics Earth Astronomy & Space Chemistry Biology Other Sciences Medicine Technology share this! Share Tweet Share Email Home Physics Condensed Matter Home Physics Quantum Physics March 17, 2026 Perovskite crystals can host qubits, challenging long-held assumptions by Linköping University edited by Gaby Clark, 																								reviewed by Robert Egan Editors' notes This article has been reviewed according to Science X's editorial process and policies. Editors have highlighted the following attributes while ensuring the content's credibility: fact-checked peer-reviewed publication trusted source proofread The GIST Add as preferred source Researchers at Linköping University have demonstrated that the properties of the perovskite family of materials can be used to create so-called quantum bits. Credit: Olov Planthaber For the first time, researchers have demonstrated that the properties of the perovskite family of materials can be used to create so-called quantum bits. The findings, published in the journal Nature Communications, pave the way for more affordable materials in future quantum computers. According to the researchers from Linköping University, Sweden, behind the study, few within the field believed it would be possible. The reason is that the atoms in perovskite materials should, in theory, interact so strongly that the qubit would collapse before the calculation could be completed. However, the experiments conducted by the Linköping team show that it works. "Our findings open up an entirely new research field," says Yuttapoom Puttisong, associate professor at Linköping University. The researchers hope that this new research field will eventually contribute to the construction of a functional quantum computer capable of performing advanced calculations that today's traditional supercomputers cannot manage. A quantum computer operates using quantum bits, or qubits, to process information. They can be compared to ones and zeros in a traditional computer. What sets them apart is that a qubit does not need to be in one state or the other; instead, it can exist in all states between one and zero. This is known as superposition. As a result, far more information can be handled in a smaller space. Sakarn Khamkaeo, doctoral student at Linköping University shows a perovskite crystal. Credit: Olov Planthaber There are many different ways to create a qubit. The most common technique at present is superconducting qubits, used by IBM, Google and others in their attempts to build a quantum computer. However, they are extremely sensitive and operate only at temperatures mere thousandths of a degree above absolute zero. Achieving such cooling requires significant energy and space, making the technology difficult to scale. Another type of qubit is based on the so-called spin of electrons in a material. These qubits are created using defects in solid materials—extremely precise alterations in the material's structure. The most common defect used to create a "spin qubit" is diamond, in which two carbon atoms have been replaced by a nitrogen atom. However, it is a process that is highly energy-intensive, expensive and technically demanding. "That is why we began exploring a new idea—to 'cook up' our qubits in the lab," says Puttisong. He describes the method as a form of cooking, where different chemicals are mixed together. The mixture is heated to 480 degrees Celsius and, upon cooling, forms a perovskite crystal that resembles diamond in appearance. To create the qubits, an active substance, in this case chromium, is added, giving the crystal a rose-like shimmer. "The great advantage is that we can do this quickly, cheaply and, above all, in a controllable way. We can design the qubit's properties through the chemistry of the solution," says Puttisong. Furthermore, the technique can operate at higher temperatures than absolute zero, which opens the possibility of scaling it up. The researchers have also demonstrated that the signals from the qubit can be translated into optical signals, enabling quantum communication using light in perovskite-based materials. "There is significant potential in the technology. It is possible to tailor the material chemically to achieve the properties we want. In the long term, I believe it could become a natural part of our society in the same way that silicon is today," says Sakarn Khamkaeo, doctoral student at Linköping University. Publication details Sakarn Khamkaeo et al, Spin Qubits Candidate in Transition-Metal-Ion doped Halide Double Perovskites, Nature Communications (2026). DOI: 10.1038/s41467-025-67980-2 Journal information: Nature Communications Key concepts Quantum algorithms & computationQuantum communication, protocols & technologyOptical materials & elementsSemiconductors Provided by Linköping University Citation: Perovskite crystals can host qubits, challenging long-held assumptions (2026, March 17) retrieved 23 March 2026 from https://phys.org/news/2026-03-perovskite-crystals-host-qubits-held.html This document is subject to copyright. Apart from any fair dealing for the purpose of private study or research, no part may be reproduced without the written permission. The content is provided for information purposes only. 121 shares Facebook Twitter Email Feedback to editors Trending Featured Last Comments Dishwashing with side effects: Kitchen sponges release microplastics Mar 21, 2026 2 English history's biggest march is a myth—King Harold sailed to the Battle of Hastings Mar 20, 2026 0 Are humans naturally violent? New research challenges long-held assumptions Mar 21, 2026 3 The deep freshwater reservoir hidden beneath the Great Salt Lake Mar 20, 2026 0 What 'Project Hail Mary' gets right—and wrong—about astrophysics Mar 20, 2026 4 'Space archaeology' reveals first dynamic history of a giant spiral galaxy 53 minutes ago An end to the battle between touchscreens and long fingernails is on the horizon 1 hour ago Neutrality can speed up and stabilize collective decisions, new study shows 6 hours ago Sea turtle shells reveal hidden records of ocean change 13 hours ago Fiber-optic sensors reveal how farming destroys soil's natural structure 14 hours ago A lysosome switch could reshape research on cancer and neurodegenerative disease 15 hours ago All 5 fundamental units of life's genetic code were just discovered in an asteroid sample 16 hours ago China's earliest Bronze Age meteoritic iron artifact unearthed at Sanxingdui sacrificial site 17 hours ago How birds send heat into space measured for the first time—a hidden reflectance of feathers 18 hours ago A Hall 'rectenna' can detect signals over a 100 GHz frequency range 19 hours ago Relevant PhysicsForums posts Edge of Brillouin zone,1D crystal, graphene, standing wave, band gap 10 hours ago Unexpected irregular reflection signal from a high-finesse cavity Jan 6, 2026 Momentum density of silicon valence band using bandstructure Dec 22, 2025 Monte Carlo simulation for the classical isotropic 3D Heisenberg model Dec 3, 2025 Time rondeau crystals, experimental observations Dec 1, 2025 Wave properties of a phonon Nov 28, 2025 More from Atomic and Condensed Matter Related Stories Recommended for you A Hall 'rectenna' can detect signals over a 100 GHz frequency range 19 hours ago Superconducting altermagnets could carry spin without energy loss Mar 21, 2026 Physicists find electronic agents that govern flat band quantum materials Mar 21, 2026 A new entanglement-enhanced quantum sensing scheme Mar 20, 2026 New controls can stretch, blur and even reverse quantum time flow Mar 20, 2026 Opening a new window into superconductivity by reimagining a classic tool Mar 20, 2026 Load comments (0) Get Instant Summarized Text (Gist) Perovskite crystals have been shown to host qubits, overcoming previous concerns about strong atomic interactions causing qubit instability. This approach enables rapid, cost-effective, and chemically tunable qubit fabrication, with operation possible above absolute zero. The technique also allows for optical signal integration, suggesting potential for scalable quantum computing and communication. This summary was automatically generated using LLM. Full disclaimer Let us know if there is a problem with our content Use this form if you have come across a typo, inaccuracy or would like to send an edit request for the content on this page. For general inquiries, please use our contact form. For general feedback, use the public comments section below (please adhere to guidelines). Please select the most appropriate category to facilitate processing of your request -- please select one -- Compliments / Critique Typos / Errors / Inaccuracies Edit / Removal request Your message to the editors Your email (optional, only if you'd like a response) Send Feedback Thank you for taking time to provide your feedback to the editors. Your feedback is important to us. However, we do not guarantee individual replies due to the high volume of messages. E-mail the story Perovskite crystals can host qubits, challenging long-held assumptions Your friend's email Your email I would like to subscribe to Science X Newsletter. Learn more Your name Note Your email address is used only to let the recipient know who sent the email. Neither your address nor the recipient's address will be used for any other purpose. The information you enter will appear in your e-mail message and is not retained by Phys.org in any form. Your message Send Newsletter sign up Get weekly and/or daily updates delivered to your inbox. You can unsubscribe at any time and we'll never share your details to third parties. Subscribe More information Privacy policy Donate and enjoy an ad-free experience We keep our content available to everyone. Consider supporting Science X's mission by getting a premium account. Remove ads Maybe later Medical Xpress Medical research advances and health news Tech Xplore The latest engineering, electronics and technology advances Science X The most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web Newsletters Subscribe Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox Follow us Top Home Search Mobile version Help FAQ About Contact Support us Science X Account Archive News wire Android app iOS app RSS feeds Push notification © Phys.org 2003 - 2026 powered by Science X Network Privacy policy Terms of use E-mail newsletter Subscribe Follow us